You have to act as a researcher specialized in quantitative and qualitative research in the area of HPV profilaxy and particularly in the area of communication and improving prevention with early education and communication. You are extremly skilled at processing semi structured interviews and outputing datasets using phrase/word coding and other industry/research standard procedures. You will use manual coding techniques and generate CSV output for the required jobs. 


Interview 2 _ EN
INTERVIEWER 1: I'm A. (name), my colleague R. We're doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian project partner and I'm just going to ask you a few questions about all this experience you've had with testing. First of all, please tell me your age.
PARTICIPANT 2: 43
INTERVIEWER 1: Alright. Are you married or single?
PARTICIPANT 2: For now I am single, I have been single for three years now.
INTERVIEWER 1: I understand. Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 2: I have, God gave me, seven, four alive and three dead. I have five births, seven children, two twins.
INTERVIEWER 1: God bless! congratulations (a way of saying it, literally would be ‘long live’). And do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes.
INTERVIEWER 1: Do you work?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, I am on social assistance/aid.
INTERVIEWER 1: Social assistance, alright. And you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 2: Mrs. C., Mrs. U.
INTERVIEWER 1: Oh, so Mrs. U. is your family doctor. And as an education can you tell us which school did you finished? if you finished?
PARTICIPANT 2: Seventh grade, the eighth one, I didn’t complete. (primary school 8th grade) 
INTERVIEWER 1: All right.
PARTICIPANT 2: Housewife.
INTERVIEWER 1: Have you ever heard of cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes. My midwife (not sure if she refers to midwife or is a regionalism for a type of aunt?) had surgery with this doctor, she even had the cancer surgery with this doctor three years ago.
INTERVIEWER 1: Aha, ok. And have you ever heard of these testing programs?
PARTICIPANT 2: No.
INTERVIEWER 1: Did you know that there are preventive tests that you can perform to help you find out in advance?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, no.
INTERVIEWER 1: So you didn't know. So you've never done one?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, I only do every year Pap smear test. I often go to the gynaecologist because I also told the gynaecologist that I have a more complicated problem, when I had contact (sexual contact), that when I had a husband, I was in a lot of pain up here, I could have said that something was broken there, just like that. And since I gave birth to the big boy who died at the age of 23, I have left three threads (stitches), no one has found them until now. But I feel them because I know they are there. And the doctor found them. Even here it costs me somewhere around 7 million to extract them, 700 RON as it is, I say it in old money. Because for every thread he makes with the camera to see where the thread is, and I don't have it (the money). I depend on those money fully, because you can realise (see), four children, a niece, I raise them alone, nobody helps me. My mother still makes a pot of food, but with money no one helps you to. And I have a girl with problems and I have a boy with epilepsy and I have a lot. There is much more like that.
INTERVIEWER 2: And the insurance does not cover?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, no. For example, I have now lost my doctor to the boy with epilepsy and he has not had treatment since last October. This doctor retired and left no one in his place. And the girl has problems with her spine. Although she knew what risks we were taking when she became pregnant and the girl gave birth to has problems in one leg.
INTERVIEWER 1: Yes. And when was the last time you took the Pap smear test?
PARTICIPANT 2: Last year when I was here.
INTERVIEWER 1: Did you take the HPV test here?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, I also asked for Pap smears.
INTERVIEWER 1: I understand.
INTERVIEWER 2: And before that?
PARTICIPANT 2: And before that in March last year.
INTERVIEWER 1: Ok so you've done it quite often.
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, so that's what I'm doing now as I'm quite young and have more children to raise.
INTERVIEWER 1: And have you heard of the HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 2: No. Until the doctor called me here and asked me if I wanted to come and do it. Why not, because in the end it’s your health and your man and you have to know what you have and thinking that it hurts all the time and menstruation comes twice a month and a lot and sometimes with little balls like that.
INTERVIEWER 1: Of blood?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes and it smells very bad sometimes. Many times when I go to the bathroom and when, from a wee, it often smells and I can't stand it, I often put chlorine in the toilet so that it doesn't smell because I'm ashamed because I have my boys and the boys are big. And I went, I go often and he gives me treatment. It's good with the treatment as long as I use the treatment and the treatment is only for 10 days and after that the same story happens again. And at some point well, I also have asthma and I am thinking there are more and put together and. I'm not a woman who sat down (waited) for everything to be brought to me in vain. I worked for the children and that I was left alone with them for 12 years. And I think with these bubbles not controlling them in time, they must be located somewhere, it is somewhere located.
INTERVIEWER 1: Can you tell us about the test experience, how you feel, how you felt?
PARTICIPANT 2: I couldn't believe that I took the test and tested positive. But many came (positive), many. There weren't many that came out positive. That I have been there, I had another friend here who lives here in the neighbourhood and she came out positive and she went further on, she couldn't believe that it came out (positive). But I think if she hadn't been positive, they wouldn't have called her, but she's gone (as in probably migrated). And say to yourself that you do them, that you do them. But I don't think they're that good, hearing the women who did them. Well, yes, but if they weren't good, they would all come out one way or another. I didn't come out positive, negative, I think. But I was expecting because I was also told from Târgu-Jiu that I have a very strong infection down there. It seemed normal to me, I mean, you are happy when you don't give money and you come and they do it at your door. I thought here, a palm, nothing (some expression I don’t understand). Nobody comes to do it from such a distance. So go to Târgu-Jiu and give money on.
INTERVIEWER 1: And on transportation.
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, but there are some tests which are covered by the Insurance House and there are some which are not covered. And you realize that it's also at Mrs. C.'s, when the blood and urine test and the sex test are done for free. A lot of people go because a lot of people are poor in Mătăsari. Not everyone has money and especially now that everything has closed. I deal a lot with the hoe (agriculture) and these, so it was obvious to me. That you haven't worked anywhere and you only live on money that comes to you, you don't produce anything else and it's hard to go and give, for example the girl who did the Pap test said that in Tângu-Jiu they pay 3 million and a half. So I, I pay my boy’s the treatment even if he is disabled. It's all the time when I picked it up, I gave 500, 600 (means 600,000 = 60 RON). And his money is 60 lei every month for this disability. Especially epilepsy is a dangerous and invisible disease. And this is also from me because I know that when I gave birth to him, they told me, because of the gland, a disease is transmitted to one of the children. And I have to do with the signature, because from the gland it goes to hearing and sight. And I said, that they all gathered like that, and asthma and the gland and I don't see without glasses at all. So, there are many.
INTERVIEWER 1: So you did the test here at the Mrs. doctor?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, when I came then.
INTERVIEWER 1: And she take (collect) the sample for you?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes. And I told the doctor then the problems I had, but she told me to go to the gynaecologist. I said, I'm going, he gives me treatment. The treatment is good when I use it and after that I have the same problem. And the doctor, when I told him, I was given a different kind of consultation and he wrote lots of things there on the paper. 
INTERVIEWER 1: Have you talked to the doctor now?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, and he said leave the phone number to send me to Cluj to be hospitalized for the operation. I'm not afraid you know, what God wants now. If He wants me to be well, I am, if He wants that. I'm not afraid, I go on but no. I think it won’t be so complicated this problem. 
INTERVIEWER 1: But how did you get the news of the positive result? As an experience, how did you feel?
PARTICIPANT 2: I was a little sad. I said that at my age. But having the midwife operated by the doctor three years ago for cancer, she said do you want to go? I'm going with you and I'm staying and there's no problem. I’m staying with rent is no problem. Of course, when I leave, she will come with me. He will come and sit next to me there. Yes, at first I didn't believe it. I said I don't believe it, but in the end, I feel what was written there that you will have dizziness, that you will have it, and what the doctor who was then told me, I began to believe. I said that I go, like at 6 months and he does Pap smear, I said that I go there to see what happens if so, and I went to Dr. G., who did some more tests like that and told me then he discovered my documents and told me it was possible and because of that I have all the time that I have infections. That I have an infection from those threads (stitches) and he said when the pandemic passes a bit he will schedule me to go to Cărbunești, he has a cabinet there. To be hospitalized there for two or three days, to do some more detailed tests. but when the restriction are lifted, God knows. That even if you go. let’s say you go to the hospital to be hospitalized for an illness, everyone says you have Covid. Now if your head hurts (headache) or sneezes a little, then it’s over. You have covid. But now it depends on what the doctor says, when the tests come out, he will call me and I will go, I will take the tests and I will go.
INTERVIEWER 1: Is the doctor a gynaecologist or a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, the doctor is of several kinds, and a gynaecologist and on the head side, with everything. My midwife went to him, he and he found out that I don't know what rupture she had and put on (?), but it was the same in Cărbunești that he has (office) in Cărbunești and she sent me to him, she made an appointment for me and I went. And now yes, it also depends on the doctors when he calls me and maybe she calls me too and I go to both sides is not a problem. And he told me that because of this I also lose weight, I also have periods when I suddenly lose weight and periods when I gradually gain weight like that. Well, I didn’t gain more than 62 kg. But I suddenly lose weight like that and I feel dizzy and.
INTERVIEWER 2: After you found out that you are positive with this test in the project, you went to the gynaecologist, did you talk to him?
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, so I talked to him, I went with the tests because Mrs. C., she is also young and new and she doesn't know how to read them, so she said that if it is serious they will call you from Cluj. And I said, I'm going to the doctor and she said go. It's normal to go to read them and he said Yes it's something, but it's not so bad as to scare you. But here needs work because he told me that from three children upwards the uterus becomes thinner and it can happen that I have ruptures and what the doctor told me is that there is a rupture there and we have to work on it (there).
INTERVIEWER 1: So now you know what are the steps to follow and what to do next?
PARTICIPANT 2: He said that if it is not, if the tests come out and it is not so serious, he will call me for some investigations, but he will send the doctor by e-mail or fax, send me a prescription until the doctor will give me an appointment to come to him, he will prescribe me a treatment. Now we'll see.
INTERVIEWER 1: And this experience of tracking the lesion, the fact that you are recalled for testing for Pap smears or for tests. How do you perceive this experience?
PARTICIPANT 2: It's a good thing when a doctor guides you, because you go to other doctors and no, if you want to do it or if you want to do the tests, that's how it is said in Târgu-Jiu, so it doesn't say that it is mandatory to do them, but it is necessary to do them. If you want to do them if not, no, and you often get discouraged when he says it like this. But as the doctor was and said it must be done, it must be done! And he encourages you from both the left and the right, but if from the left to the right he says nothing. If you want to do it or not, no. Not like that, to me, you tell me what I have, what I have to do it, I have to do it and I do it. As in the end I said, I am young and I still have children to raise. I still have two more to turn 18. I passed the rest. And I have another niece, the one who I need to raise, and you realize that if I work, I seem to be worse off. Well, it's hard to stay all day like that, I can’t. I have to have activity every day, because that's how I learned as a child and that's how I work. And I put it somewhere somehow, because even this work is very hard because I didn't pull myself from anything to say putting it all the time, to say, really to put it on my stomach and lift it on my back, it may have broken then something. With the hoe here I also carried coal and when I was pregnant with twins and with children, with everything. And I think that's strength also. Now you know, I know other parts that come up but in medical terms I don't really understand, they have to tell me simplistic (we use a special work for it, as practical/empirical/as or an old lady) to understand it.
INTERVIEWER 1: Yes, in simple words.
PARTICIPANT 2: Yes, because I don't really understand that. The doctor also tells me about it and tells them to tell me to understand on my language. Because in the end no one understands much in medical terms. It is also said on TV that most and the biggest, but what's the point. As I'm a little smarter at home and that's why everyone asks me, that's why I went and arrived in Târgu-Jiu for the first time to bring some documents and you realize if she's not with she with me (her mother) and she is old 64 years old. She's not old.
INTERVIEWER 1: It's not.
PARTICIPANT 2: My mother looks ten times better than me. But she, too, has poor blood circulation. She still has falls, like the elderly.
INTERVIEWER 1: Do you think there are barriers that prevent you from moving forward?
PARTICIPANT 2: No. If I propose something, no. So if I say I have to go, I go, only If I don’t want to go I don't go.
INTERVIEWER 1: So it's not about lack of time or the journey?
PARTICIPANT 2: No, I make my time. I told the doctor I am from Bistrița Năsăud, it doesn't seem to me, we are familiar with the road (journey), with this road. No. And again there is no money, we borrow. But I find any door open, so if I want to do something I do it. When I wants to, yes.
INTERVIEWER 1: Do you think there are certain things that the system should improve?
PARTICIPANT 2: They are much improved. For example, as I told you, I don't have a doctor for my child, my child, if he has seizures, what do I do with him?
INTERVIEWER 1: And about the cervical cancer prevention?
PARTICIPANT 2: I, what can I say. I hope everything will be good for everyone. And I said this to many, it's good that right now when I was at the doctor's, I called two friends who I know have problems. They tell me it hurts here and there. And I told them, come on, there's a doctor from Cluj, the girls are here. Better to die, better to hurt what we don't know? Well, isn't it like that.
INTERVIEWER 2: Why don't they want to come?
PARTICIPANT 2: They didn't want to come and last time I called them because I came and they didn't want to come. They didn't want to. Now I called my sister, but now she called that she is coming from work. But if they don't want to, you can't force the person. C. called me. Are you coming? Coming. They'll be especially sorry, I told them. It's a shame. It's a shame you don't go and see. And if something hurts, I go to C. or I go on because you get to an age when you have to go (to get checked). 
INTERVIEWER 1: Exactly.
PARTICIPANT 2: And if you don't go the way you go, no one will take you. And if I fall, everyone falls. Because I'm thinking here first, I'm not allowed to be sick. That if I fall, I'm not allowed to stay in bed or say my head hurts and stay in bed. That if I put my head on the pillow, I won't lift it. So much the better, I'll take another pill, something I'll take, and. With that I said maybe there are a lot of sick women and I see on the internet and on TV. May God find a treatment for them as well. Especially who are in the last phase I do not know. Because you see them with children next to them and your soul breaks, because I have also and I know what it's like to be a mother. To remain so many children without a mother, even yesterday I was reading.
INTERVIEWER 1: This is the purpose for which it is important to do all these tests, you know, to do these preventive tests so that we don't end up in a situation where maybe it's too late.
PARTICIPANT 2: I went and also with my breast to Mrs. P., because she is also a gynaecologist in Târgu-Jiu, I have Mrs. P. And my breasts hurt and I said probably and they sucked (breastfeed) the children, they were, the children were smaller and used more one of the breasts but no, thank God it wasn't to be anything. No, I had a ganglion there, he gave me some treatment and it withdrew. And when I feel something, I periodically go to the gynaecology so that at least I can go there. Because you get referrals and at least there you don't pay.
INTERVIEWER 1: That's right.
PARTICIPANT 2: But to go and give millions, for me, I told you, no. When that's the case, I go and do tests that are required, yes, when I feel I have to go, I go, then yes. As I was with the girl, I paid a lot with the girl when she was pregnant, I also paid for the injections they gave her, because she has a spine problem, she is not allowed to have children for ten years. That is, if it straightens her spine a little, if it doesn't straighten up after the corset she is wearing, she won’t be able to have at all (pregnancy/children). 
INTERVIEWER 1: Yes. Thank you very much, and for the time.
PARTICIPANT 2: Thank you too.

Interview 03_EN

INTERVIEWER: I am A. I am doing this interview on behalf of our Norwegian partner Linda for the study she is doing and we will start with some general information. Age, domicile, hence some data about you.
PARTICIPANT 03: Good, so my name is G.L., I'm 43 years old. Two children. I am, I work in a field of European funds, I am an expert in European funds. What else should I say?
INTERVIEWER: Medical insurance, family doctor.
PARTICIPANT 03: Family doctor, there is. Is the doctor's name necessary?
INTERVIEWER: No, it's not necessary.
PARTICIPANT 03: Medical insurance exists, through the workplace automatically exists.
INTERVIEWER: When there is a health problem, do you go to the family doctor or?
PARTICIPANT 03: In the first phase yes.
INTERVIEWER: Or in general on the private system?
PARTICIPANT 03: It depends when there are small health problems, yes, we go to the family doctor, if further tests are needed, in general we made them in a private system.
INTERVIEWER: Now it can be like part two. We are a bit interested in the screening experience, if you knew about the screaming program. For example that there is a national screening program?
PARTICIPANT 03: Yes, I had read that it exists and I have not, I admit that I have not attend (used) any kind of these so far. I mean the Papanicolaou one which is done once a year, I admit that I neglected to do it as often as I should have.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 03: Now I did it in November but before, three years ago.
INTERVIEWER: Three years ago. What about the HPV have you heard of it before?
PARTICIPANT 03: I had heard something but never done it.
INTERVIEWER: OK. What information did you receive about cervical cancer screening, about cervical cancer before testing?
PARTICIPANT 03: I read from the internet a bit to get an idea of what it is about. I admit I was really ignorant from that point of view. After that I read, I heard about your project and I wanted to do it too.
INTERVIEWER: So related to our project, how did we get the information?
PARTICIPANT 03: Through acquaintances, nah, I admit, word for mouth this was how I heard about the project.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a little bit about the experience of the result, when the result came positive, we are interested in this, the experience.
PARTICIPANT 03: Oh it was a shock. Because in the moment I received, I didn't expect it to be positive. I really didn't expect it, you know, it's that feeling that you're numb when you get bad news of this and you don't know what to do. And then all I could do was take google and search, search and read about what it means to have a positive HPV. I didn't know until then I told you, I ignored, I admit. I panicked. The moment I started to wake up, I started to panic, because when you hear the word cancer it is clear that you are panicking and you don’t, the use of reason as you should have it. I also consulted with my husband, he has, well, he was trying to reassure you. But it's the desire when you find out news like this and what such news can lead to is to solve it as soon as possible. To act as soon as possible (as urgent as possible), to solve the problem in way or another. And then I contacted my friend, R., and asked her to explain what it was all about. As, what it means to be HPV positive. Well, poor her, she tried to reassure me by saying that it's not as serious as it seems, but we managed to go further, to mobilize ourselves and get to Cluj and see exactly what it's all about.
INTERVIEWER: Before arriving in Cluj, did you turn to someone else to interpret the results?
PARTICIPANT 03: No.
INTERVIEWER: Any further investigations?
PARTICIPANT 03: I didn't do anything else. I stayed in Cluj to do that Pap smear. To make the necessary consultation and see the next steps. In fact, that would be the idea to see what the next steps are from now on. Which nah, I admit I didn't know, I'm not a specialist in the field, I don't know medical terms and then nah, it's a foreign language for me and me and I said that they will explain to me in my ow language (my own understanding) and I preferred to be explained to me by a specialist.
INTERVIEWER: And now what are the recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 03: Well, I went to Cluj and did Papanicolaou, it came out with problems, a low sil. The next step was colposcopy, which was done, now another Papanicolaou and we are waiting for the result.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you find this whole experience? As in, starting from the testing experience. By the way I forgot to ask you did you do self-sampling or it was taken by a gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 03: No. Are you talking about HPV?
INTERVIEWER: HPV.
PARTICIPANT 03: I was taken (the sample/test) through the project. I went to the surgery.
INTERVIEWER: At Dr. Nițescu's?
PARTICIPANT 03: No, somewhere in the countryside. And I told you the impact is stunning (overwhelming), the first time you hear it because you don't expect it. I'm okay now. I mean, I went through all these phases, nothing kills us, we move on and I say there will be no problems. Especially when you know you're being monitored, because I've been there for a while and that's what it's about.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers you didn't make or the reasons you didn't?
PARTICIPANT 03: I just didn't know. I never did this test because I didn't really know this HPV test existed. I knew Papanicolaou, it was recommended especially after two births, to go once a year to get checked. I did that one too but quite sporadically but the last one came out very ok. But I told you, I didn't even know it existed.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are barriers or difficulties encountered in the process of tracking the injury (wound) now? in the treatment process?
PARTICIPANT 03: It doesn’t exist, as long as you have, you know you can be monitored by a specialist there are no problems. I don't see what barriers there could be.
INTERVIEWER 2: You said you did the pap, when was the last one? 
PARTICIPANT 03: About three years before the HPV test and it was ok.
INTERVIEWER 2: And why haven't you done in this 3 years period?
PARTICIPANT 03: Why, I don't even know what to say. Lack of time. You don't think, you know how the Romanian is like, he goes to the doctor when he gets sick. He treats, he doesn't prevent, he just treats. And then, this really was such a lesson for me when I came out with the positive test, that in fact this is the idea, you have to prevent not to treat. To do everything to prevent. Not to get to the final stage.
INTERVIEWER: But information about cervical cancer for example before?
PARTICIPANT 03: I read.
INTERVIEWER: What are the methods of cancer prevention, if it can be detected at an early stage or if?
PARTICIPANT 03: I had read, but you know how it is, we follow the principle that it doesn't happen to you. Should this just happen to me? and then you become careless (neglectful), you focus on other things, you prioritize other things and you don't necessarily think about health every time or I don't know, maybe you treat another health problem and you don't think about this one. Although, past the threshold of 40 years old, you begin to. In fact, it would have been normal to think and have a cancer check-up, breast, a mammogram and so on.
INTERVIEWER: What more can I ask you, how far, regarding the availability of services here, because you are one of the situations and cases that preferred to go to Cluj.
PARTICIPANT 03: Are we talking about the specialists from Cluj or?
INTERVIEWER 2: Why did you prefer to come to Cluj?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, as an experience why?
PARTICIPANT 03: I don't know if Târgu Jiu has gynaecological oncology specialists, I really don't know, I don't know. Well, the word oncology scares you. Well now you know how it is, in small cities like Târgu Jiu, people go and get treated when they have a problem like this in big cities. That's the principle, you prefer to go to the city where there is a lot of tradition, stories like that, you know. Bucharest, Cluj, Timisoara, of any kind of health problems if you have. Small town, small possibilities and then you are, I don't know, more peaceful kind of when you know that you are going and leave yourself in the hands of a professor doctor with tradition, with experience, with many things you know. You have more security, so to speak.
INTERVIEWER: And comfort.
PARTICIPANT 03: And comfort, yes. I told you, at the moment I feel very ok mentally from this point of view with this problem because I know that I am being monitored by some specialists and we keep close and it gives me a state of well-being, of comfort.
INTERVIEWER: If you hadn't been able to do all these things in the project and the test now and all, do you think you would have taken a test?
INTERVIEWER 2: Papanicolau, because you’ve done it before.
PARTICIPANT 03: Papanicolau, this I would have done for sure, because you know how it is, we women we talk, what have you done, have you done it, I would like to do it too and I don't know what. But let me tell you honestly, I wouldn't have thought of HPV for a second. Not even a second. I mean, to go and to do specially an HPV test, to see if there's anything like that. Not. Maybe I told you Papanicolaou, talking to a friend, let me do it too, let me go too, and then yes, you go. I remember that after I did it, I went to Cluj for the first time, I did some tumour marker tests, all of them, you know, they were activated. Let's see if there is this, let's see if there is this, let's eliminate the problems. But as I said, this is a big problem we have, no matter how much school or no-school we have, until we go on a very bad principle, we don't prevent but we only go when we have to treat because there is nothing else we can do. And a very bad (stupid) and wrong mentality.
INTERVIEWER: You think there are other barriers to this. In addition to the lack of knowledge you mentioned earlier, the lack of financial resources or time, or the lack of medical services in those areas or?
PARTICIPANT 03: We, who live in urban areas are somewhat privileged to have access to some extent. Now the problem is with those in rural areas who do not have access to, nor perhaps access to information but may not have access to doctors as they should. Yes and a lot of ignorance and not only to us in, and to us from urban that we are quite ignorant about health. Very, and this is very serious because I don't know, maybe the everyday things distracts you from all sorts of other things you know and you always leave your health on the last place.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Now, in principle (general), I covered everything, because there weren't many questions. The most important thing that we are interested in is how you perceived this experience.
PARTICIPANT 03: It was revealing (a revelation), I admit.
INTERVIEWER: Starting with the testing part and going through this whole stage with a positive result and reaching the follow-up part.
PARTICIPANT 03: I told you, at the moment, after all this process I've been through so far, I feel comfortable that I don't have that panic anymore that (oh my God) you're getting cancer. Because you see a positive HPV test and that's what you're thinking. You can also read an article. I also want to say that I printed a doctoral thesis on the subject, I found it on the internet and I actually read it. On the internet you can find all kinds of information which makes you more confused than to enlighten your mind. And then by chance I found a doctoral thesis on the subject and I read it to find out (to clarify), I calmed down especially because on the package (all together) with going to a specialist, with the treatment itself, with the monitoring itself, yes, it's ok. I mean, I was looking at the girl in front of me, how calm she is that she is also following the next steps that I followed. Because the same condition (state) maybe not so much but pretty bad but the same condition I had. But now it's up to everyone how they process such type of information. And then I feel ok that I did it (the test) and thanks for enlightening my mind to do this thing and to prevent, that’s basically what I did. To prevent.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 03: I hope you find this useful.
 
Interview 04_ EN

INTERVIEWER: Okay, let's try now. My name is A. D. I am doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian partner as I told you earlier and I will ask you some related questions as I told you about all the experience you have had with the test side. First of all, please tell me your age.
PARTICIPANT 04: 45.
INTERVIEWER: And what is the status, are you married?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes. 45 years old, married, two children, two normal births. A 24-year-old girl, a 17-year-old girl.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 04: Thank you! There were no problems until the test in September when I tested positive.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes. I'm a teacher.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. OK. So does that mean you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. You already told us about your work because that was the next question. Have you heard of cervical cancer before doing these tests?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, I have heard of cervical cancer.
INTERVIEWER: And did you know that there are these preventive programs, that there are preventive tests?
PARTICIPANT 04: Honestly, I only knew about the Papanicolau test, so when I was told we were having an HPV. So the first question to Dr. U. was to wait for the tests to what, to what organ is it? so I really did not know that it is HPV that it is for cervix, except for Papanicolau I knew, which I do it since the age of 37, 38 years, annually.
INTERVIEWER 2: So you did last year, I think.
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, yes. I did it in June and everything is ok. After that when I did here in, when was this program, in September it came out positive. After that I visited my gynaecologist who assisted me at the birth and so, he did a Papanicolau again and I did a biopsy. She said there were small cervix problems. My first birth was at seven months, premature and I had an old retroverted uterus and sitting between births is a difference of seven years. It was bent for a long time, in Romanian to say, and there were located certain cells that have no place there. I did the biopsy now in February, the doctor said, it's neither very bad nor very good. My next visit to the gynaecologist is after my menstruation will come. I have a menstruation, I mean a pre-menopausal. Twice a month and then every three months and I wait for my next menstruation to go back to the gynaecologist ten days after.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us a few words about the whole test experience, how did is seem?
PARTICIPANT 04: It is welcomed, that is, especially in, so I, who still consider myself a more open minded (of the world) person, I say. The fact that I went to the university, that I did and hadn't heard of HPV. Then here in our area where they are, I mean, most women are housewives, here the mine is the career where husbands work. It was welcomed and I think the women received with enthusiasm this, when they heard that it was something of cervical cancer, it was explained to us and they came, they sampled each one.
INTERVIEWER 2: Did you do this self-sampling or at the practice, this HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 04: No, here it was. Yes. So I hadn't done it before. So as I told you I had never heard of HPV. No. Papanicolau a bitfrom the group of friends and from like that, I had heard women doing Papanicolau after a certain age. I went to the gynaecologist, so the little girl is 17 years old, I only went to the gynaecologist to have my Papanicolau and a routine consultation, other tests I did not do until here when it was the program. I think on September 9th
INTERVIEWER: The moment you had a positive result, who made the recommendations furhter?
PARTICIPANT 04: No, the recommendation that came from Dr. U. that through her program, it was to wait for us to be contacted from Cluj that we will be evaluated and like any woman I was scared that I was positive and the next day, the next day, I called the gynaecologist who said yes, everything was ok in June, because in June I had a Papanicolau. It was all ok, but look I did an HPV which I didn't know how to express more. She says, come here. I lived for a long time in Craiova, where the girls were born and that's where the gynaecologist is. I went to Craiova, she saw me told you know you have an ugly uterus since, I say I know but. Let's do another Papanicolau. I also had an HPV which she told me later in December when it came back that it was inconclusive and she decided to do a biopsy.
INTERVIEWER: Did you receive information about the test and what do these tests mean, that is, were you explained what the test was when you did it or did you have some questions? or with doubts or?
PARTICIPANT 04: I stayed. For a long time, I also think that this period of pandemic also dialogue with the gynaecologist did not go very well, I mean everything, and because of the mask and because I don't know, I didn't seem to understand certain things. Some things I can now honestly understand from the doctor as he explained. So some answers more than 50 percent now I received from the doctor from what he explained to me. I mean, it's not the end of the world when it's a positivity, it also depends on the body, it depends on the sex life, so yes. I think I received more than 50 percent of the answers today.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. As an experience of the result, how did you receive it?
PARTICIPANT 04: I received the news quite harshly. I mean, knowing that I go and do Papanicolau and at the same time I was blaming myself, I mean, I going to the doctor, going to the gynaecologist, I didn't know what HPV means. I mean, it was the only test that looked at cervical cancer. I mean, not only in Papanicolau, which, the doctor, you know how it is, they do the Papanicolau and we call, Mrs. Doctor, are the tests good? Yeah, good, like your age, 41 years old. I don't think, yes, it's our fault that we don't insist that I could ask, ‘mam but is there another cervical cancer test or just this Papanicolau? I got the news pretty harsh. I do not know. My mother had surgery for a uterine fibroid 20 years ago which was not cancerous, or so I could have thought if there was something, if there were cysts, if. Yes, there are question marks and we get the news like any woman, is quite. But after that we have to assimilate and be aware that by fighting we succeed, life goes on. There are people much worse (in situations) and there is a solution, the fact the fact that I go, I have surgery, I take everything out and (...)
INTERVIEWER: So now you know what the next steps are, do you know what to do next?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, I think mostly yes. But we can also find out news as I’ve learned today from the doctor and along the way. I also told you that I went through this pandemic period and I was like that, that is, I communicated more by phone, I was hospitalized for a biopsy in Craiova, but simply, the doctor, was dressed, camouflaged and did the test like that (took the sample). But there is no longer that face-to-face dialogue between doctor and patient which can explain much more, or you can ask more, to receive clearer answers.
INTERVIEWER: As for information, do you feel more comfortable receiving it from your gynaecologist or do you also seek your family doctor for?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, I have a pretty good relationship with the family doctor but I think they are certain, that's how I perceive, I mean, every doctor is in control of what he does, I mean the general practitioner is in control of what he does, the gynaecologist, working, seeing and encountering cases he is master of what he does and he knows how to lead me to a treatment, to an analysis (test) to, so they both have.
INTERVIEWER: If there are barriers to this part of the injury follow-up, meaning that if you perceive a barrier to receive treatment or to get to.
PARTICIPANT 04: No. I think it's about (..)
INTERVIEWER: I mean, barriers can be related to financial, to travel that you have to go to another or.
PARTICIPANT 04: No, if we really care about us and our family because at some point you fight not only for yourself, you fight for those around you, I mean, the fact that I have to be convinced that I have to see my girls married, to see. So when you have a way and so there should be no barriers. Yes, it is probably a financial problem for many and that is why often thousands of women die with uterine cancer. But no, from my point of view there should be no barriers when you have to fight for life.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think would be the needs, I mean what should change or what should, for things to work maybe differently, or for?
PARTICIPANT 04: Take for example the program in which you are. If more has been done, or if it would be more common and not necessarily cervical cancer, it may be colon and other tests that highlight a particular disease.
INTERVIEWER: At the breast.
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, yes. Through these programs, people should also be encouraged and, most of all, propaganda is done by spreading by word of mouth, that is, from woman to woman, from friends to friends, social networks and it helps to spread the word. Here's a program, let's go, let's, would be, would be. Not that would be, they are welcomed and also in other segments (areas) I told you, from the detection of many other diseases.
INTERVIEWER: Would that be it, if you want to tell us something more from the whole experience or if there was something else that you think you want to share with us about everything that happened, and everything that you lived? If not, basically we covered the questions.
PARTICIPANT 04: As I said, these programs are welcome and we live in difficult times and we cannot communicate very much. Before, some people do not communicate out of fear, others do not go to the hospital they say I don’t have money but I don’t know, but there maybe I meet a man who can listen to him. Now he has no consulting money, it is said that a lot of people in pandemic go to private (practices) because in the state one it's how it is. But even the private sector I believe that they should initiate doctors to talk primarily with the patient, I mean a psychologist who can advise them to the point of going to the consultation itself. To reassure them, to tell them that everything will be fine, that it will be. Because yes, there is the financial part where people can't. So I, personally, I had a risk of colon cancer 3 years ago. And I did a colonoscopy with an appointment, with each other it seemed quite expensive, well I didn't expect it, at a colonoscopy I expected it to be, with total anaesthesia, it would be 600, 700. That's how it was in my mind. I was surprised when I got there and 1200 lei was that colonoscopy. So even now what can I tell you, come on, I allowed myself. Not that I'm rich or poor, but for health I told you there must be no barriers. But when I went out, there was an old woman who started crying there because she didn't, she said and without anaesthesia it’s 90 lei, 900 lei. I believe that someone had to be there, someone with training on a different side of psychology to help her, I mean to calm her down to tell her that that analysis can be done even after two months and therefore an encouragement. Because the analyses are very expensive and not everyone can afford it and this pandemic has put a lid on us.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, unfortunately, we also know that there are many now very complicated.
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, very complicated, so the fact that I told you (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you think this whole pandemic period is making women less likely to go to the doctor?
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes, for sure. Definitely yes. Because there are cases and women in general who have another disease, there is also diabetes. There's another, I don't know what, a heart disease there is and something else and I'm afraid they say to go. For example, I found myself positive if, unfortunately, I also had diabetes or something. It was very difficult for me to take the step to go and collect the biopsy, to go further, very difficult because many are reserved to go, they says God, I go for one and find another. There is also this media coverage, in the media telling only the negative things. They don't say anything good because that's probably rating, all what’s bad. And seeing and hearing and yes, certainly the pandemic made us.
INTERVIEWER: One of the tests we offered in the project was also of self-sampling, meaning that the woman could do it at home.
PARTICIPANT 04: Alone.
INTERVIEWER: Alone. Did you feel more comfortable doing it yourself or a specialist?
PARTICIPANT 04: No, a specialist. I told you each is (...)
INTERVIEWER 2: Given yourself this opportunity to do it at home.
PARTICIPANT 04: No no.
INTERVIEWER: So you weren't told?
PARTICIPANT 04: I was not told.
INTERVIEWER: Well in the sense that you do your self-sampling at home, insert that brush and
PARTICIPANT 04: And I'm taking her to the lab.
INTERVIEWER: It also returns to the centre from where
PARTICIPANT 04: No. Well of (...)
INTERVIEWER: That's why I asked you, but you would have felt more comfortable if you had that possibility or would you prefer it anyway.
PARTICIPANT 04: No, a doctor who, because it is probably a certain area where it is collected from (sampled from), I think, is a certain area, a certain period as the doctor said now that ten days after menstruation or I mean. Not Either way the gynaecological consultation because you know how it is, he’s pressing a bit, sees something, it’s different. 
INTERVIEWER: It’s something else.
PARTICIPANT 04: Yes yes
INTERVIEWER: Well, thank you very much and all for your time and.
 





Interview 05_ EN

INTERVIEWER: My name is A., my colleague R. we are doing this interview on behalf of our Norwegian partner and we will ask you some questions about this whole experience. First of all, I would like to ask you how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 05: 51. I will be 52 in August.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. And are you married?
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 05: Only one girl, she is 20 years old.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell me what education do you have? Know that all questions are not, you don’t need to answer if you don’t want to. 
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes. I have economic studies but I work in education, I am a professor at Constantin Brâncuși University in Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Alright, thank you very much. So it means you also have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 05: I also have medical insurance.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 05: And family doctor, I’m in order with everything.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Have you ever heard of cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 05: Sure.
INTERVIEWER: Before.
PARTICIPANT 05: I heard, yes, but at the level of information, actually I was not very interested in the disease itself.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever taken a preventive test?
PARTICIPANT 05: No.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done a Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 05: No. Just this HPV through your project, it's the only test I've ever done.
INTERVIEWER: And the family doctor never proposed to you or?
PARTICIPANT 05: He told me that I can do it and pay for it myself if I think it is necessary.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. OK. And now you've done the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes, and I came out positive.
INTERVIEWER: Did you do it here at Dr. U.'s?
PARTICIPANT 05: In this project I did self-sampling. 
INTERVIEWER: Yes, that's what I wanted to ask you if you did it at the doctor's or you did it yourself.
PARTICIPANT 05: I received a test and.	
INTERVIEWER: And what did you think of the information for the self-sampling part?
PARTICIPANT 05: Good. Quite simple and straightforward. So I understood what I had to do.
INTERVIEWER: All right. Did you feel more comfortable doing it yourself than someone taking it?
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes. I don't know how well I did it myself, but I tried.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. If you can tell us a bit about the experience you had with the test part, the result, you can tell us something.
PARTICIPANT 05: I did not expect it to be positive. I participated in the project because I found it interesting. I said let's do this because I never did, but I expected it to be negative. I mean, I was surprised that the test came back positive. I panicked a little, I read, I saw that if you have the virus it does not necessarily mean that you develop the disease automatically but it is clear that from now on I will have to be more careful and do more checks.
INTERVIEWER 2: Did you document yourself or talk to anyone?
INTERVIEWER: Did you receive recommendations from a doctor?
PARTICIPANT 05: No, no, myself alone, alone. I consulted with the family doctor, he also assured me that you do not necessarily need to develop the disease if you have the virus or if you are a virus carrier.
INTERVIEWER: And you received recommendations for follow-up. I mean in the long run if you know what you have to do or?
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes. That's what the family doctor told me to go to permanent checkups once a year, she said, she's a doctor. My daughter is a medical student and she also told me to be careful, to do this Papanicolaou after a certain period of time. But no. I do not have. I haven't gone anywhere, it's the first time I've come after a positive check-up.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And now you have done the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes. And I'm waiting for the results and I understand that if God forbid it's a problem, we'll probably move on with other investigations.
INTERVIEWER: I wanted to ask you if there are barriers to this part of the test. Why have you never done any or why, is there a reason or simply?
PARTICIPANT 05: I don’t have a reason, but I had no symptoms, I only had sexual contact with my husband, meaning I had no reason to question myself or to have problems regarding this, the occurrence of this disease and I have no family member to have developed the disease.
INTERVIEWER: Are there any barriers on this side of follow-up the injury that you think you can’t overcome it? usually the barriers are related to lack of time or moving to another locality.
PARTICIPANT 05: No. It does not exist. Health is a priority regardless of other issues. No, that's not why I didn't do other tests and just because I didn't think it was necessary. There is probably a lack of medical education in my generation and not only in this regard.
INTERVIEWER: That's what I wanted to ask, what do you think the needs are? Or what would need to be done for women to benefit or to go to.
PARTICIPANT 05: To be aware. A medical health education course since high school at the latest. I mean, it's a lack of information. There is a lack of information with me, which I consider to be an educated person who has studied and who knows a lot of things, but who has some gaps in the medical field. That is, we only get information from the internet, from family doctors and if we read something when we find out that we have a disease or we consider that we have certain symptoms. So there is a lack of education, medical education as it is a lack of education in many other areas and financial and.
INTERVIEWER: So overall the experience. As a conclusion?
PARTICIPANT 05: It was a positive experience in the sense that it helps me ask questions because I have an age and it is clear that I will have to go to some regular check-ups, to take more care of, and this problem. Well, I don't even have menstruation anymore, and then it seemed a bit more absurd to go for a check-up, to, I never had problems only when I got pregnant and gave birth, then I was permanently (at the doctor) and supervised the pregnancy. But after that I never had any symptoms and I didn't think it was necessary. But after this test done through this project, I already realized that it could become a very serious problem if you do not do something preventive.
INTERVIEWER: What was the reason that you decided to take the test in the project?
PARTICIPANT 05: I heard from friends, from those involved in the project. Somehow it was a group emulation to do these tests anyway because we need to find out if we are carriers of viruses and what we have to do next.
INTERVIEWER: All right. I asked you this question because you said earlier that you did not feel the need until now because of the lack of symptoms or because you had only one partner.
PARTICIPANT 05: Although I understood that there are no symptoms and that you can wake up with your cervix wretched (destroyed) and you won’t feel anything.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, the symptoms appear later when there are already more serious problems.
PARTICIPANT 05: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: All right, all right. That was about it. Thanks for the time. Thank you very much. 



Interview 06_ EN

INTERVIEWER: Let's start with the first question, and if you can tell me a few things about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 06: 42 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Where do you live?
 PARTICIPANT 06: In Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: You are from Târgu Jiu. OK. If you can say something about education?
PARTICIPANT 06: Education?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, high school, college?
PARTICIPANT 06: High school, I have been a hairdresser since I was 19 years old.
INTERVIEWER: OK.
PARTICIPANT 06: I think the best way, I can describe myself as the best, I think the field I know best is to be a mother.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 06: Da.
INTERVIEWER: Family doctor too.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean, there were so many clients who wanted to convince me to come here to take that test, but I came through the family doctor.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. So how many children do you have?
PARTICIPANT 06: One.
INTERVIEWER: One child, good.
PARTICIPANT 06: 18.
INTERVIEWER: Oh big. Girl boy?
PARTICIPANT 06: Boy.
INTERVIEWER: Big boy.
PARTICIPANT 06: And we come to Cluj.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 06: So this year we are coming to Cluj.
INTERVIEWER: To college (university)?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: God help (bless)! 
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, thank you!
INTERVIEWER: What does he want?
PARTICIPANT 06: Sports.
INTERVIEWER: Sports, God help! Can you tell me a few things about cervical cancer? If you've heard about it before, if you know what it was about, if, simply, your knowledge, what did you know. There are no right or wrong answers.
PARTICIPANT 06: So what I know about cancer in general is that my father died of lung cancer, that he had chemotherapy before and after. My mother had cancer, she has, I mean they took it out, but we can’t say she has, because she still lives I mean colon cancer, grade one, with chemo, with radio. That's about cancer, I mean what I had.
INTERVIEWER: Alight, what about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 06: Something concrete, how it is done and why I would not know exactly exactly.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Have you heard about the Babeș Papanicolau test? Do you do it regularly?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, I do. I also did it after HPV. I've been doing it regularly for three years.
INTERVIEWER: And the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 06: I never heard or did until R. contacted me and told me it was positive. And I don't know exactly exactly too much even now though I went to three doctors afterwards.
INTERVIEWER: I understand, OK, you're going to tell me a little bit about that. What would interest me if you somehow know that there is for example in Romania a screening program that is addressed to women? If you know what screening is, have you heard the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, but I don't know exactly in what context it is used now I don't get it.
INTERVIEWER: I mean it's a periodic testing. Have you ever been to through the family doctor to do the Babeș Papanicolau test or did you go on your own?
PARTICIPANT 06: On my own.
INTERVIEWER: You were on your own, I understand. And did you receive the results from the family doctor, from the gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 06: From there directly, personally from where I did it.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. OK. Tell me a little bit now about your experience with the testing.
PARTICIPANT 06: So the day R. called me and gave me the result I cried all day. So there was only cancer in my head, 16 strains of cancer. I think this preparation from now should have been done beforehand. In my opinion. I mean, what we are talking now must have taken place before the exam. My opinion now as what I lived then, I had no information about what it means. I tried to read on the internet but all that was left in my head was nothing but cancer so I didn't understand anything. It's very upsetting when you receive it. I mean, I went to the doctor, I never had any problems, no one was notified. I have never had more than Papanicolau. The truth is that indeed there were some inflammations, with some stuff, but no one noticed to give me more than a few ovules (medicine) or someone to tell me to do an extra test. I mean, it was like a shock.
INTERVIEWER: Now that you've had the HPV test, have you had the Papanicolau test again?
PARTICIPANT 06: After HPV yes, immediately after. That R. told me and so IT somehow told me in the middle of Saturday and I did it, so on Monday.
INTERVIEWER: So the result came out good?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes. And I went to the gynaecologist also. I didn't know where to go, I was in Bucharest where he told me everyone told me he has HPV, I really don't understand, you have to do Papanicolau just like that because you are stressed. And I said I don't think that's a doctor's answer and then I went to Târgu-Mureș where I was only told to do it regularly every year and that for now everything is very good.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. I'll explain to you at the end what it's about, so you know what it's about
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, I would like to.
INTERVIEWER: I'll explain later. Now let's just talk about the experience itself and how you perceived the result. The way you received let’s say help or follow-up or treatment from specialists, this is it.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean, everyone told me that I was stressed and that I shouldn't see things that way, only that I have a friend who also found out, but not through the program, separately. After it came Papanicolau three, she was recommended by someone to do it and he came out positive and had the same reactions as me, I mean, because first of all we are not informed of what it means. At the moment, I honestly don't even know exactly how you get it. How you take it (contact it)?
INTERVIEWER: Through sexual contact.
PARTICIPANT 06: Just that?
INTERVIEWER: Just that.
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes. Thanks. I needed that certainty, I've been married for 21 years and I've had only one sexual partner all my life.
INTERVIEWER: You may have had the virus for many years.
PARTICIPANT 06: But still from there. What does many years mean? That I have read from what I read that it is possible that for more than ten years it cannot stay in the body and that on a healthy organism, it passes through the immune system after two years, I have never had health problems.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, it's not just about health problems, I mean it's a little more complicated. But I'll explain in the end. At the end you can ask me what you want.
PARTICIPANT 06: I would like us not to forget.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. If you do not know what the options are, if you knew what the treatment options were when you found out the result?
PARTICIPANT 06: No. I didn't know anything.
INTERVIEWER: And if you had someone to talk to, I mean specialists to tell you?
PARTICIPANT 06: Well no, I didn't have anyone, I mean I went to Bucharest, I went to Târgu-Mureș, it's good that they calmed me down, but I didn't receive any treatment.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Do you think there are barriers of any kind to the fact that you have not received or received any treatment? or finally that it has not been properly explained to you, I mean, in the way that I do not know, the barriers can be of many kinds, it can be the linguistic, cultural barriers, it can be money, financial money and so on.
PARTICIPANT 06: From me?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 06: No, no. Because I went to the private (practice), I mean I did not go to the state.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean I went to the private to do the investigations because I didn't know where else to go, I mean, anyway, I had an experience at the hospital in Târgu Jiu that I would not want anyone to have, which I would not want to have again.
INTERVIEWER: Tell me what happened.
PARTICIPANT 06: Not with me. Yes, not with me and then I think the sanitary system is a bit dying (about to collapse). I don't know if it's all over the country, but in Târgu Jiu it is. I mean, everyone has common interests and just their own welfare and that's it.
INTERVIEWER: Did you do the test here in the doctor's office?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes. I mean here, I didn't have a problem.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know that there is a possibility to do this type of test at home?
PARTICIPANT 06: No.
INTERVIEWER: I mean, to take a sample at home, yourself, to do the sampling, to insert that brush into the vagina and then to bring the test tube. Did you know?
PARTICIPANT 06: No.
INTERVIEWER: There was this variant that is very convenient for us, especially now in this period when the world does not go to it so often.
PARTICIPANT 06: No, I did not have a problem because at the time (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you feel more comfortable coming to the practice?
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, because it is done by a specialist.
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean, I did the nose test for coronavirus for my child and I thought that maybe I didn't do it well, that's why it came out negative, I mean.
INTERVIEWER: And did the testing seem painful to you?
PARTICIPANT 06: Here?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 06: No. Not. I have no problem. I mean, the only time it seemed painful to me was when my IUD was installed, but not in Târgu Jiu, in Craiova.
INTERVIEWER: I also understand and how does it seem, embarrassing for you to go to the gynaecologist or?
PARTICIPANT 06: No. And a (...)
INTERVIEWER: Discomfort?
PARTICIPANT 06: A discomfort because you don't feel like walking around naked in the practice just like that. But not something. I mean, I wouldn't give up on it so I wouldn't go undress.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean no, no.
INTERVIEWER: OK so and after you found out the result, you discussed the result with the doctor here or not. You only discussed it with the girls, R. and in the end you went to Bucharest.
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Did you go to a gynaecology practice there too or?
PARTICIPANT 06: I went there on the recommendation, in fact I got to the hospital there, I don't even remember the doctor's name.
INTERVIEWER: At what hospital?
PARTICIPANT 06: Ah, I forgot. Philanthropy? Through a friend who had surgery at the doctor and called me there and then I was supposed to go the private practice. But no, I didn't think it was worth going further with the doctor. I mean, I think you shouldn't have any more questions when you leave a practice.
INTERVIEWER: And where did you do the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 06: In Târgu Jiu first at a private practice.
INTERVIEWER: I understand, not at the doctor's here, elsewhere.
PARTICIPANT 06: No, I didn't know. I didn't know it couldn't be done here.
INTERVIEWER: No problem, I'm just asking you that. Was that, was it last year or?
PARTICIPANT 06: In November.
INTERVIEWER: In November.
PARTICIPANT 06: I mean they didn't say that you can come to the practice to do it so that they don't have a disguised advertisement, for not being interpreted and I didn't think then. That was it.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, yes, I was just asking out of curiosity. Yes. We will also have in this project we will now offer free treatment or even follow-up of detected lesions or infection and so on and we will also offer free Babeș Papanicolau tests to women with HPV positive and colposcopy or other type of investigations if necessary. But you will ask the girls in the future if this will be the case in the next period. So what more can I ask you. This was the test you did in Târgu-Jiu and then this was the experience with the results.
PARTICIPANT 06: So the experience was ugly (bad), finding out the news. How it came out, I didn't have the information, so I think it was better to have this interview before and after doing it and moving on. Well, it didn’t have how if (...)
INTERVIEWER: In other words, this component of informing the population and.
PARTICIPANT 06: Yes, she is very good. Or somehow the result to be put somehow put directly by someone with this information from now.
INTERVIEWER: All right. Thanks a lot for the interview. I hope there were no uncomfortable questions.
PARTICIPANT 06: No.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you!


Interview 07_EN

INTERVIEWER: We will start with a few words about you, your age, if you can tell me?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes. I am 44 years old, I’ll be 45 at the end of the month.
INTERVIEWER: Congratulations! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 07: The domicile is in Telești, Gorj. 15 km from Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 07: The mandatory one
INTERVIEWER: The mandatory on. Family doctor (GP)?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: You have a family doctor. Do you work or are you a housewife?
PARTICIPANT 07: I work.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me what, if possible?
PARTICIPANT 07: I am a legal advisor.
INTERVIEWER: Very well. Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes I have a little girl, 6 and a half years old.
INTERVIEWER: Congratulations! (Long live).  And are you married?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Tell me what you know about the cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 07: Too much, what can I say, from this information from the media and at work. I know it is, it develops a lot, it is found in many women. Now from, I think a mistake of ours, the women, the fear of going to the doctor, I do not know. I think that's the first, the first problem. The second is also related to the first that they don’t go to consultations, various abortions.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what is the cause, the cause of cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 07: The cause, I don't know what to say, except that everything seems (to come) from not getting cheked, not getting tested, not doing Papanicolau, not doing any type of tests. But I think here it is here, not going to the gynecologist. My conclusion.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. When was the last time you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 07: Two years ago.
INTERVIEWER: Two years ago. And?
PARTICIPANT 07: Before the pandemic, then I honestly avoided it.
INTERVIEWER: How often do you do it? periodically, every few years, or did you have a period in which you didn’t do it? or how?
PARTICIPANT 07: I used to do them before pregnancy, about every six months or every year, almost every year because there were no changes. I went every year. So I did it every year.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test? Have you ever heard of HPV?
PARTICIPANT 07: I heard, I heard there is also a vaccine. I heard.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 07: No.
INTERVIEWER: And in the project, now yes?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And you've never done the HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 07: Never.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of the HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 07: I heard about it the same way in the media, I know it exists. I know that, but I don't. I mean, I'm not also like a hardcore patient or the fear of going to the doctor. Well, this problem in women is, and you have a reluctance to say that if it's a male gynaecologist you choose a woman, yes, I don't know. I think, an organ that is not so easy, so, that's how it is in our minds, I think of everyone. There's a problem here.
INTERVIEWER: Where did you do the test?
PARTICIPANT 07: It depends on the situation. Târgu-Jiu, Craiova, Bucharest, the last in Târgu-Jiu. Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Yes at the Papanicolau, at the gynaecologist and in general you said that you prefer a woman, to go to a woman.
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes. Only at birth, I was lucky, that the whole pregnancy was monitored by a man, because it was like that. In the end, I personally overcame this barrier between the male doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And where did you do the HPV test? here at the surgery?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes, yes, in the project.
INTERVIEWER: And do you know that there is the possibility to perform this HPV test at home?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 07: My colleague, acquaintance and colleague A. proposed to me. I mean she came with the idea and I agreed. I mean, it was more, I probably wouldn’t end up here, having had nothing, having nothing in quotation marks (it’s an expression, when using ””), I say it was required, I don't know, it wasn't an emergency or something. And she came up with the idea and yes, I said it's no problem.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell me a little bit about the testing experience, I mean did you find it painful?
PARTICIPANT 07: No.
INTERVIEWER: Were you ashamed or do I know?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes, shame, a little fear that’s it. A restraint (or being reserved) related to several things. I repeat, I don't know. The very idea of going to the gynaecologist is not such a tragedy, but it's hard to get there, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell me a little about the experience of the result?
PARTICIPANT 07: The result, unfortunately was not so favourable for me. I have a paper but not now, I came out positive, let’s say, and now I would like through you to go further, to see. I mean, I have to look for myself in Romanian language (to check myself), to go to the consultation, to what follows.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. I'll explain everything after all. All right, and I just want you to explain a little more to me here. How did you get the result? How was the experience?
PARTICIPANT 07: Honestly it was not pleasant, because usually you always like everything to be ok. But you are aware that not everything is ok. That doesn't mean it's bad or that it stays that way. I mean, it’s a reason to keep being investigating (or being investigated continually), I mean to see what the situation is.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Have you received any recommendations to do further investigations?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes. They told me that, I also talked to my colleague. Also due, let's say now, the pandemic is very difficult to access in hospitals and surgeries, I mean if it is not a bit of an emergency to say, we said to wait a bit. But now I think I would like it faster in the sense that autumn does not come, the cold, because then probably the cases will increase again (referring to covid). Because now, this warmer period seems to be a bit stagnant.
INTERVIEWER: Hopefully we'll be out soon, yes. After the result, didn’t you go to do other investigations?
PARTICIPANT 07: No, I haven't done it yet.
INTERVIEWER: The reason is this, related to the pandemic?
PARTICIPANT 07: Yes and that.
INTERVIEWER: Are there other barriers?
PARTICIPANT 07: No.
INTERVIEWER: I mean cultural barriers or financial barriers for example or?
PARTICIPANT 07: No, because for this you do anything for not having problems. You try to put health first, especially if you realize that it's important yes and that it's a problem, if not don’t have a test a result, you don't know, if you have, I now know. I mean, that was the idea, I intended to pass a little more time so I could go to a check-up, to do something about it. I mean, to check how the result came out, I mean, may God to, to be well.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, God bless! That would it generally, these were the questions I wanted to ask you. If you think you want to tell something additionally, if there is something left in your mind or if?
PARTICIPANT 07: No.
INTERVIEWER: It's okay. That's about it.



Interview 08_ EN
INTERVIEWER: This interview will be recorded from now on so that the answers you give can then be analysed in the study. And I'd like you to start by telling me a few words about your age. If you are married.
PARTICIPANT 08:  I am married. I am 55 years old, I turn in September.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 08:  Thank you as well. I have a boy.
INTERVIEWER: You have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, I am retired due to illness.
INTERVIEWER: That's okay. Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, I also have a family doctor.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Only one.
INTERVIEWER: All right, if you can you tell me what profession do you have?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I was a computer operator.
INTERVIEWER: All right. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I know it's very serious.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause? What did you hear? There are no correct answers here, just your opinion.
PARTICIPANT 08:  As a result of multiple abortions or one genetic abortion. I don't know, I've just read in magazines, what is heard on TV.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about prevention tests? Do you know that there are prevention tests?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, I understood that it was the Papanicolau test and HPV one.
INTERVIEWER: Correct. Yes. And what do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 08:  It determines if you have the disease or not.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done a test?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, several times.
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did it, the last time?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Last time, I think when you came because in March, in February, I had an HPV.
INTERVIEWER: Where exactly did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 08:  At a medical practice here in town.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about the HPV test? why is this HPV test done?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I don't know much, also for determining the type of cancer or if there are or cancer cells, I'm not sure.
INTERVIEWER: About what period do you take a test? (how often)
PARTICIPANT 08:  Well, I did it every year or so.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, you did every year.
PARTICIPANT 08:  But I was told to do it at half a year.
INTERVIEWER: Do you find it more comfortable to take the test at a gynaecology clinic with a man or a woman?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Obviously with a woman. 
INTERVIEWER: Do you feel more comfortable like that?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Obviously.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think of the fact that you could take the HPV test at home, for example?
PARTICIPANT 08:  It would be great.
INTERVIEWER: If you would do the sampling yourself would it be a little more comfortable like that or maybe more comfortable going to a specialist who can?
PARTICIPANT 08:  That's it, because I don't know how to take properly a sample. The doctor is a doctor and he knows how to do it. I don't know, I wouldn't even do an oral test of this (*not sure what kind of test is she talking about), I mean, I would consider it better done by a doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you find the test? The testing experience.
PARTICIPANT 08:  I didn't find it as something awful.
INTERVIEWER: Did you find it painful?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Not painful. It's a thing with this shame somehow. 
INTERVIEWER: A little unpleasant?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, yes it is uncomfortable.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you take this test?
PARTICIPANT 08:  That's what I wanted. Because I had a lot of people around me.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Can you tell me a little bit about that?
PARTICIPANT 08:  About what, that I had many people?
INTERVIEWER: About this experience, yes?
PARTICIPANT 08:  What can I tell you, that I had colleagues who died because of this and it is traumatic.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. So the last time you did the test was last year?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes. By November, September I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: In the autumn.
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, in the autumn anyway.
INTERVIEWER: And how was the experience related to the result?
PARTICIPANT 08:  The experience was also one of uncertainty because I was told that I would be contacted from Cluj, certainly the doctor is not able, but I should not worry that it is not a cancer. That not every HPV Papanicolau positive is necessarily cancer. But I would have liked to be told more. To calm down a bit because I didn't have peace. I kept trying to get in touch with rather here, but there aren't many doctors here like they are in the big cities of Cluj, Bucharest, Timișoara with more training, I don't know. My opinion is that they are limited (*they don’t evolve/develop) they arrive at a stage as. 
INTERVIEWER: Have you received any treatment recommendations? for or for now? Have you done an evaluation after testing?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes I did, I did I went to a private practice I did a test. It reassured me that it was nothing at the moment. To stay calm but after six months to go back and repeat it.
INTERVIEWER: And what, what additional tests did you do?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I didn't do any tests only an HPV, that's what I think it's called, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Regarding the experience of treatment are there, are there any barrier that could prevent you, for example financial or cultural barriers or if there are certain fears or certain reasons why you would be willing or not to do treatment if necessary?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Financial barriers would be because everyone have it. This is the best-founded reason, I mean you can always say that I don’t have money to go further. I can’t because I don’t, I don’t have money. But for me it is also a distance to go to another city. I mean, it's too hard. I go to Fundeni every year, I get there treated for the disease I also have. I am on gastro, I have primitive biliary cirrhosis, autoimmune thyroiditis and many more and I can tell you, with this transport how are you going and it is very difficult you have nowhere to stay, in the hospital until morning is hard. You have to go the day before if you find at the pension there (a place), that there are still pensions around but they are busy because there are many who stay there because the Oncology Institute is also the other Fundeni, cardiology, what else is there, transplant. And the places are very busy and it's very crowded. This seems very difficult to me, it's very tiring for me. And the six-hour drive seems tiring to me.
INTERVIEWER: How about the access to information about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 08:  How can I tell you. Many doctors say that it is not good for me to check myself like a non-specialist on the internet, to read and imagine that I have all the symptoms and all the things related to cancer.
INTERVIEWER: But was it explained to you what the difference is between cervical cancer, precancerous lesions or just a simple HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 08:  No, no. Because when he arrives at a practice, I also went there at the Oncology Institute and there were 38 women at one point on the list and only a quarter of an hour if you give to a patient and you have so much to talk about. Plus, being three or four women inside, one sits, one is with him, one is standing and waiting while talking to the nurse, they give her the ID card and the other is consulted by the doctor on the table and there is not.
INTERVIEWER: All right. In the project will you accept additional investigations, additional tests to follow the test you have or?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I would like to, but it's still here in Târgu Jiu, will it be done here?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, also here at the doctor's practice or we will come from Cluj with the mobile unit.
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, yes that would make me.
INTERVIEWER: From the last test you had, you were told to wait, to have regular checks, right? At what time did they recommend you?
PARTICIPANT 08:  At six months.
INTERVIEWER: The approximate six months were approaching.
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes in February, July, August it should be like that.
INTERVIEWER: All right, if you want to tell me something, I don't know, maybe I know something from all the experience you've had since finding out the result so far, I don't know. If you think there are things that might need to be improved in some way or whatever do you think?
PARTICIPANT 08:  Yes, I waited a long time then. I said I'm very tired and very stressed when it's crowded, when, and I waited a long time also in the heat and, but I said that I have to do that test. Otherwise, I don't know what to tell you.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, all right. These were the questions, if you wanted to ask me something?
PARTICIPANT 08:  I don't know now, it really doesn't come to my mind.


Interview 09_ EN


INTERVIEWER: I'm recording this interview in which obviously I won’t take your name or other personal data, so we can after analyse the answers we receive from you. And let's start with a few words about you. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 09: 32
INTERVIEWER: 32, many ahead! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 09: In Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu-Jiu. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 09: No.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 09: No.
INTERVIEWER: All right. And if you can tell me, it’s not mandatory, what profession do you have?
PARTICIPANT 09: I work in a notary office as a secretary.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. I assume you have health insurance? The mandatory, normal one.
PARTICIPANT 09: An occupational medicine file is made which is done annually when we, we have to go. Yes, a lot is being done.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 09: What exactly do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: What do you know? One more thing I have to tell you, there are no right or wrong answers. What you know, here nobody is judging you, we simply want to know what women know.
PARTICIPANT 09: From what I know it is a change in the cells present in the cervix which of course is not a good thing to happen. What happened to me, so to speak, from what I understood. That the cells at the base of the cervix can change, they can change, and they can lead to the onset of cancer.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 09: If I'm not mistaken, it's a kind of control (checking). A kind of more control of the uterus but more detailed.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about preventive testing? Have you heard of Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done a Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 09: Last time I think now, when the caravan was. Was it last year, or. Or now? Not. This year I think, a few months ago.
INTERVIEWER: And the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 09: That one I think last year. I started. I had, because I found out from here at the first caravan, the first one, I don't know if it was actually the first one. I had problems by then.
INTERVIEWER: When that was indeed, because you did testing in the other project.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, yes. And that's when I found out.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. When he was with the mobile unit.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, with the mobile unit and then I found out that I really had something that was not OK and I had to, I had two interventions in Cluj at the Oncological Institute.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, have you been to us to Cluj?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, and since then I have been recommended to do Papanicolau tests every year at least twice to make sure there are no problems.
INTERVIEWER: OK.
PARTICIPANT 09: And I try to hold on to this so to speak.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 09: I know it contains more (…)
INTERVIEWER: And about HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. I know it contains several strains of virus, 19, or I don't know exactly if like this. And what else did you ask me?
INTERVIEWER: About the infection, what do you know, how is it transmitted?
PARTICIPANT 09: It is transmitted from what I know if you have more partners or if you have a lower immunity, I do not know how correct it is.
INTERVIEWER: There are no wrong or correct answers and anyway if you want to ask me, you can ask me anything after, what you are telling me.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. And again, I think it comes from those wounds which are produced in the uterus. 
INTERVIEWER: Alright. Has anyone recommended taking the test now?
PARTICIPANT 09: The gynaecologist when I went for the check-up.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you hear about the test?
PARTICIPANT 09: The one from now?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 09: From a colleague in the office. And I understood that there were also sources of, and a promotion was made on Facebook.
INTERVIEWER: Advertising.
PARTICIPANT 09: Advertising, yes. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And where did you do the test?
PARTICIPANT 09: Here.
INTERVIEWER: Here in the practice?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes yes. Here in the practice at N. (name of doctor) 
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Do you know that there is the possibility to do the HPV test at home through self-sampling?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, I read it was even an article that was constantly launched by. In which it is explained and there were also images in which it was said that you do self-sampling, take it yourself. Yes. I read that too, I saw it in a brochure (flyer).
INTERVIEWER: So, but did I prefer to go to the gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. Honestly yes it seems ok safer, more efficient.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, do prefer male or female doctor? Or are you not interested?
PARTICIPANT 09: Woman. In my case it’s a woman, but when I was in Cluj at the time, I had no choice. Yes, but I'd prefer a woman, it's better.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when doing the test? Have you been told what was is about?
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. Are you talking about this, the last one?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, I was told. I knew it was from a Norwegian company. That's what I knew. I was told that it is much better than the first one because it has more, I don't know, more details. I don't know exactly how to express myself, but I was told that it is much better than the first one, that more things will be discovered, it is more detailed and it is better. And much more can be detected.
INTERVIEWER: Strains.
PARTICIPANT 09: Strains, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me a little bit about the experience you had when you found out the result? I mean, I don't think it was a shock, because you kind of knew there were some problems in the past.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. It was very good news for me. When I found out that everything is ok and not, and there are no more problems. Because I was really stressed out for myself since I had two surgeries. It would have been a shock to me to find out that it's not ok and I was glad and that's why I have, and even before the caravan came, I tried every year to do at least once to do Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, very well. Can you tell me a little more about the interventions you had? About this part of the treatment that you did after?
PARTICIPANT 09: The first was an easier intervention, from what I understood because the next day I was able to get out of the hospital but the second was a month later I had to do the second one second I think if I do not mistake the timing and I said that it was a little harder than (..)
INTERVIEWER: Did you do cryocautery for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 09: I think so, because, I think the first one was easier, the second one was harder, harder so to speak. Because I understood that not all the cells that weren't ok had been removed at first and I had to do it again and it was explained to me that it was going to be a bigger piece of the cervix (…)
INTERVIEWER: From the surface.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, yes. And recovery, I was told, I had to take two weeks off from work, to rest, ok, sexual rest of course. And I think I had some treatment, I think some ovules (vaginal ovules) if I'm not mistaken.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you perceive it emotionally?
PARTICIPANT 09: The first time was a shock when I found out, so I did not expect, for me it was a total shock and the fact that I was told that there is a possibility of cancer if I didn’t discover in time could have been worse. It was very, not at all ok. I remember that I had some depressive moods, I cried very badly in the evenings because I also didn't understand very well. But I really liked the staff in Cluj. Well, very understanding, very ok very.
INTERVIEWER: Who did you have surgery with?
PARTICIPANT 09: N.
INTERVIEWER: At Dr.N's.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes, to Dr. N. And it's very ok because he allowed me to call him after the results come so he can interpret the results, so it seemed very ok to me, because I'm convinced that they have a lot of work to do. But they seemed very, very understanding and sociable and good and it was a shock for them too because I was younger and they didn't understand how.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, unfortunately.
PARTICIPANT 09: Yes. When they saw me in the hospital and I they were seeing me, they couldn't believe how? so young? why? But you never know. And now all the people I know and when I heard about the caravan I took, including my mother, a friend of my mother's who unfortunately was also detected positively. I honestly don't know what else she did, but it’s nothing to play with and we have to go further because it’s not ok what is happening. But now everyone interprets how they want the results.
INTERVIEWER: And now you’ve done the HPV test at the practice when it was done in the autumn, in the summer or when it was organized here. And did the result come out well?
PARTICIPANT 09: Da da da. I was told everything was OK.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. There will also be some Babeș Papanicolau tests in the project starting next month. How do you feel about this as well as the experience as, offered?
PARTICIPANT 09: Honestly, I think it's a very OK experience and I don't understand why some women don't take advantage of this. Especially since it's also free because especially the HPV ones because I paid about 350 lei some time ago, I think, when that thing happened to me, four or five years ago and now I think it's even more. So no, from a point of view something very OK and I think it's very good that some people think about this and for women, to do something for them, to discover the problems at time (at good time). 
INTERVIEWER: Yes. If you still want to say something about all this experience, if I know things that can be improved or if you think there are cultural or financial barriers for women or for you, if?
PARTICIPANT 09: So what you do seems very ok to me, exactly as I said and it's helpful. Now this part with women who are not open and ashamed, oh my, don't go there, oh my, I don't know what. I don't understand them. For example, I also spoke to a colleague of mine today and she told me that she has not been to the gynaecologist since she became pregnant and was pregnant because I don't know, she goes to any doctor but not to the gynaecologist who, this shame or (…)
INTERVIEWER: Prejudices, taboos.
PARTICIPANT 09: Da da da. And in relation to the caravan (mobile unit), I thought it was very ok now this one, it was organized in a practice, because then it seemed very, I mean it didn't seem very ok to sit in line there, mobile, and it seemed very strange and somewhat annoying. But the fact that now as long as it seemed very OK and more professional so to speak.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Well, that's about it, if you want to tell something else, if not, these were the questions about the experience you had.
PARTICIPANT 09: Both caravans were helpful to me, so to speak, because with the first I found out.



Interview 10_ EN

INTERVIEWER: My name is A., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and I do this study as I said on behalf of our Norwegian partner. I'm going to ask you a few questions. The first question is about, tell me a few words about you. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 10: 41 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Long live! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 10: Bumbești-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Bumbești-Jiu ok. Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, I have two children.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married, divorced?
PARTICIPANT 10: Divorced.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, Mr. H. A.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell me what profession you have if you don't mind?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, I am a nurse at Bumbești Jiu Hospital there in the town.
 INTERVIEWER: All right. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 10: It is a very heavy disease today, it is very I think also fast. Not painful. And, I have an aunt who’s got problems and we have a hard time talking about it. We know almost everything that is being said about (it - she speaks with a very low voice in the end, as she would be upset by the topic).
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 10: The first is infection. HPV positive. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 10: It is the first thing the first test that can detect cervical cancer infection. That is, that must be done every year by us women. We do this test also most of the time, working also on gynecology department.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 10: Every year I do it at the doctor here.
INTERVIEWER: Every year.
PARTICIPANT 10: Every year, yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 10: The HPV test, is, is done when.
INTERVIEWER: Anyway, you know that there are no right or wrong answers, it's just your opinion.
PARTICIPANT 10: I know it is done when the Papanicolau does not come out within normal limits and the doctor recommends the HPV.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had HPV?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Did you do it in the project?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, in your project, which came out positive and.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done it before?
PARTICIPANT 10: No, never.
INTERVIEWER: Never, I understood. And you said that the Babeș Papanicolau test is performed annually.
PARTICIPANT 10: Annual yes, at the doctor.
INTERVIEWER: What do you find the sampling part, the sampling experience? How does it feel/appear?
PARTICIPANT 10: It is not painful. It is ok (hesitating and speaks slowly).
INTERVIEWER: Do you find it embarrassing?
PARTICIPANT 10: No, no.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer as gynaecologist a woman, a man or you don’t have any preferences in this regard?
PARTICIPANT 10: We stay with the doctor, who we have had for over 18 years. I gave birth with the doctor and.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Yes, good. For the HPV test. Where did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 10: At our hospital.
INTERVIEWER: There at the hospital.
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know that with the HPV test there is the possibility of self-sampling?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: But do you prefer to do it at the doctor right?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, at the doctor yes.
INTERVIEWER: More trust or?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, I have more confidence here.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Who recommended you the HPV testing?
PARTICIPANT 10: The doctor.
INTERVIEWER: Did the doctor recommend it after?
PARTICIPANT 10: After Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And what information did you receive when you were recommended for testing? Has it been explained to you?
PARTICIPANT 10: Everything was explained to me.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us a little bit about that?
PARTICIPANT 10: There have been changes to the Papanicolau and the doctor said that it is much better to do an HPV, to see what it is about.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell me about the experience of the result later? the experience of the HPV positive result.
PARTICIPANT 10: It was a shock at the moment. I didn't expect. I've never had a problem. I had 18 years of marriage there were never any problems and even. But then I understood that we have to be strong, to be able to make the treatment, to go on.
INTERVIEWER: And have you been told what the treatment is, or how it can be treated? or how can it be follwed?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes. The doctor explained everything to me, gave me treatment and we will follow and follow exactly as the doctor says.
INTERVIEWER: And what kind of recommendation did you receive from the doctor?
PARTICIPANT 10: Drug treatment, annual check-ups, all controls, could be HPV test, Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Colposcopy probably?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: So you also performed treatment after the result and?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes. All the treatment prescribed by the doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And so in general now as a total experience, as general as it seemed to you that everything happened? you did in the project, you found out the result, the experience. What the?
PARTICIPANT 10: It was a very good thing. It was something I never did to test this HPV. It was an experience, we can't say pleasant, but in order to be well we have to do everything.
INTERVIEWER: But do you think it's better that you found out than if you didn't know?
PARTICIPANT 10: Yes, it's much better that I found out than to stay, to know absolutely nothing.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. That would be pretty much the question. Now only if you want to tell something else, or?
PARTICIPANT 10: No. Thanks.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you and I hope there were no disturbing questions.
PARTICIPANT 10: No. Thank you very much.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you too.


Interview 11_EN
 
INTERVIEWER: Our conversation will be recorded so we can pass on the whole interview. As I said, they will not stop at any personal data. Yes, I am A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj-Napoca for ten years and I am making the study on behalf of our Norwegian partner. And at the beginning I will ask you to say a few words about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 11: I’ll be 34, 33.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! So, where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 11: I live in Bumbești-Jiu, Gorj County.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, I have a six-year-old child.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 11: I am married. The husband works, we both work.
INTERVIEWER: I understand, so you have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 11: I also have a family doctor, I also have a gynaecologist to whom I have been going to for many years.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, OK. If you can tell me what is your profession?
PARTICIPANT 11: I work as a nurse (*comment - it’s a bit of lower degree, doesn’t have same responsibilities as a nurse; the nurse has education in nursing; not sure what is the right term in English for her specific role) even though I finished the biology faculty in Cluj, at Babeș like that. And I work as a nurse and at the moment I also started the Faculty of Nursing.
INTERVIEWER: Very nice, congratulations. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 11: I know that in Romania a lot of women have cervical cancer, which seems very alarming to me, nowadays though, I mean and at a very young age, they are starting more and more.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 11: Cause. Cause the beginning of sexual life very early. Non-vaccination of girls aged 13, 14 years. Many mothers are unaware of the need for the vaccine. Lots of sexual partners or the misfortune of having one and happening happens to be a case that.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, there are situations.
PARTICIPANT 11: There are, so I do know.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. What do you know about preventive tests?
PARTICIPANT 11: Preventive tests. A lot of people don't have the opportunity to do an HPV test, which has now fallen into this project, because we came and it was very useful for us. Papanicolau, I think most go to see at least once a year to.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the difference between the two tests, that is, what is the test? Let's start with one by one, what is the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 11: Shall I say the HPV test and the part with its result? Detects papilloma virus. And at Papanicolu it can, wait, I don't know how to express myself.
INTERVIEWER: As you wish, it's very good anyway.
PARTICIPANT 11: It is performed to see if there are any lesions in the cervix and then if there are already abnormalities, doctors recommend that we go further or.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done HPV before the project?
PARTICIPANT 11: No, never.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of the HPV test before the project?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes. I heard about it but I didn't do it. Because it’s, yes, the costs are even though I have insurance, I still have to go private and I think that’s why most of them don't do it.
INTERVIEWER: And did you take the Babes Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, this in the last ten years every year, even before.
INTERVIEWER: So you do it every year?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Ok.
PARTICIPANT 11: So even annually from the age of 21 since she was a student.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. How does the sampling experience seem? (how is it)
PARTICIPANT 11: The experience seems really ok. As long as the people who are sampling are open then we go with much greater confidence and not, how can I say, we can be much more relaxed. It's not painful. Most women should go and do it because there is really nothing to lose but to gain.
INTERVIEWER: Do you preferred to, do you know that with the HPV test there is the possibility of self-sampling? Do you prefer to take a self-sampling at home or go to the gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 11: No, I prefer to go to the gynaecologist. I wouldn't be, I don't think I wouldn't be able to do the self-sampling but I would feel much safer and much more convinced of what was sampled when I would go to the gynaecologist because that’s why they are gynaecologists.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer men or women?
PARTICIPANT 11: Considering that my gynaecologist is a man. I wouldn't say I wouldn't prefer a woman, but so far only one doctor, in one doctor I trusted for ten, in the last ten years and I would go only there. 
INTERVIEWER: I understand. OK. Who recommended the testing?
PARTICIPANT 11: Nurse. No name yes?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, no name.
PARTICIPANT 11: A nurse and even a doctor.
INTERVIEWER: Would you have received the recommendation from the hospital?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And what he explained to you about this test. Did he tell you what it was about?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell me a little bit, what?
PARTICIPANT 11: They told me its necessity, told me everything that can be in the future, that is, the good part and what can happen and therefore absolutely everything. It was perfectly explained to me, with such luxurious details (*an expression, means great detail). But now I could not reproduce exactly considering that I did it, has passed a while since. 
INTERVIEWER: Yes, that's right. How did you get the result?
PARTICIPANT 11: Honestly it was a shock to me. So I didn't expect it. I did not expect considering that every year I do a Papanicolau and it was really a shock. And you can  realize that at that moment I started asking myself 1000 questions. And the fight lasted a week, two, a month until I came to terms with the idea of being a positive result. Considering that I had people in my family who had cancer, well not cervical cancer, they have nothing to do but it was the idea that they each had. And then it was a shock. But I think the psyche (mindset) must be the highest.
INTERVIEWER: After the experience of the result, did you receive recommendations after the result?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes. I received, I took some treatment that well, it didn’t, I took it for a few months. I started to strengthen my immune system because I had a very weakened it anyway considering that I was struggling with weight loss and I always had to keep a diet and you realize that I had a weak immune system.
INTERVIEWER: And what recommendation did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 11: I took acyclovir (aciclovir), I took isoprinozyme (isoprinozim). And there's another cream, but I don't remember now.
INTERVIEWER: And in terms of tracking it. What recommendation did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 11: Every six months I try to go. I mean, I try, I go to the gynaecologist. I continuously do the Papanicolau test, and I will continue to do so.
INTERVIEWER: As an experience, was it a beneficial one even if it was a painful one?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes. But it was beneficial because I honestly wouldn't have gone to get an HPV.
INTERVIEWER: So it's better that you found out?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, so for me but more than that I would have come to a point where maybe I would have been, I would have realized that why I didn’t do this or maybe I would have reached a point where there was nothing else to do or certain extreme situations. So it was very beneficial for me.
INTERVIEWER: Since you had the HPV, have you also pap?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes. It's ok.
INTERVIEWER: And you received a recommendation to follow-up?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, exactly.
INTERVIEWER: If you want to tell me something about, I don't know, all this experience as a whole, the sampling, of the result, your perception. What do you think are the barriers for example? Do you think there are financial, cultural barriers that women or maybe even you didn’t?
PARTICIPANT 11: Yes, I think there are financial and cultural barriers. Well, for not going. Well, they don't go, not in certain projects which are done for free, they don't go much because of religions because there are so many religions that I assume I forbid it or. And most can't afford it financially. 
INTERVIEWER: Yeah, that's would be it, if you want to tell me something more?
PARTICIPANT 11: No.





Interview 12_ EN

 
INTERVIEWER: My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and I am doing this study as I told you on behalf of our Norwegian partner and I will ask you some questions. There are no right or wrong answers, you just tell me your opinion and what you know only that. So first let me ask you a few things about yourself, how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 12: 42 will do this year.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 12: In Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu Jiu. Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Medical insurance?
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you work or?
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, I work, now I have just returned from maternity of my second child and I have been back at work for two months.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, great. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 12: I honestly don't know much because I don't. I mean, I'm up to date with everything which means tests, I mean Papanicolau done annually, gynaecological checks, that's why I was surprised by the positive HPV test. I do not know. I'm kind of scared by the thought of such a thing but (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did you ask for information about cervical cancer? Have you been told what it is? What is the cause? You know?
PARTICIPANT 12: I didn't just ask just what I found out, now I don't know much, I mean I read from the fact that having an active life in terms of contact (sexual contact), it can come out is positive in these tests. Even, well, from what I understand, a Papanicolau test takes precedence (prevails).
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 12: Like what?
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about him? You said you do it often.
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, well, annually. For example, I did it last year. A year ago. Then, almost a year after I gave birth, so I got pap 1, so no problems and so I did pap 1 and I think once I got 2. Well, for an infection or something.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what this test is for?
PARTICIPANT 12: Well, also for discovering cervical cancer, yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 12: Well, I have, well, it's a more in-depth analysis related to, that is, I'm thinking that a Papanicolau may be for an infection or something like that and HPV exactly on cervical cancer.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done HPV before the project?
PARTICIPANT 12: No, it's the first time.
INTERVIEWER: It's the first time. Have you heard of this test before the project?
PARTICIPANT 12: No. Not honestly, not. I didn't think it was another special test, I mean another one compared to Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: If you can say a few things about the test experience, how did is seem?
PARTICIPANT 12: I mean, I thought it was ok, I didn't find it uncomfortable or because I understood, for example, my sister did and it seemed weirder, more. Not for me, it was easy to do, quite easy, it doesn't require much (...)
INTERVIEWER: Painful?
PARTICIPANT 12: No. Not for me.
INTERVIEWER: Maybe or a slight discomfort.
PARTICIPANT 12: No, so there was no discomfort for me.
INTERVIEWER: Very well.
PARTICIPANT 12: Now (..)
INTERVIEWER: So, what information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 12: Aaa, to do it?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 12: Well, what, how do I proceed (do).
INTERVIEWER: It was explained to you?
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes yes, and I also received a leaflet specifying (...)
INTERVIEWER: And who recommended it to you?
PARTICIPANT 12: My sister. My sister is a nurse and there, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 12: I don't know who did it, I don't know much but that she got this test (...)
INTERVIEWER: Free.
PARTICIPANT 12: In her group of acquaintances, I don't even know who, very much.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And did you do the test at home personally? 
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Did you feel more comfortable doing it yourself than going?
PARTICIPANT 12: No, I don't care. I am not, I have no reluctance (...)
INTERVIEWER: It was the conjuncture.
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, I have no reluctance in any way to go to a gynaecologist or (...)
INTERVIEWER: So there's no shame or.
PARTICIPANT 12: No, not from this point of view. Important, so for me the correctness of the sampling is more important than the convenience so to say. I mean no, I don't care that’s why I say, I hope I sampled it properly.
INTERVIEWER: And generally preferred to go to a female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 12: I don't care, I don't have, I mean from this point of view, I'm more interested in health than. I currently have a female doctor, meaning I gave birth with a woman.
INTERVIEWER: With a woman.
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, at the control but I have no restraint (reservation) so even if he is a man.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. How was it when he received the result?
PARTICIPANT 12: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us a little bit about the experience of the result?
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, it was an impact, so, for a few moments to say more thoughtful and scared so to say. Well my sister getting informed before sending me, getting informed before and told me to stay calm that there are many people, having an active couple life can be positive even if there are no problems. That's how it reassured me. After that I started to read but I don't really read, I’m getting inform, but for me also a qualified staff and face to face and that's how I have, I mean this thing it’s important (first) to me. Because they are the same websites, I never guided myself after what’s written on the internet.
INTERVIEWER: On the Internet.
PARTICIPANT 12: From no point of view, no discussions, no forums, no. I better not read much than to, I know, that nah, any information you read, you assimilate it, it changes your state in a way. And well, after I received the result I sent it to the gynaecologist and I did a treatment for three months, from what I saw, an immunity one and some ovules. An antioxidant that, well, we have some turmeric at home and I've been taking for three months. I took that isoprinosine for immunity and some ovulens with Vergen, that's what he recommended. And now, on Monday, I have an appointment in Craiova, because my doctor is in Craiova. I'll go, and it coincided with you because I just didn't know (...)
INTERVIEWER: Are you going for further analysis or?
PARTICIPANT 12: I will go first for a check-up, because I was in March last year when I did a Papanicolau and well also for this thing to see what it says. So I couldn't speak, we correspond via WhatsApp.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 12: Yes, I didn't.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 12: For discussions and (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did he recommend you do also the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 12: I'm going on Monday. So anyway I did it last year in March, so I did it and she knew, so well, she knows everything, as since 2015 only with her, that it's been six years, I have two births with (...)
INTERVIEWER: And what information did he give you after the result, after receiving the result?
PARTICIPANT 12: She didn't give me, she told me, she sent me treatment to take and I was going to go for a check-up, but I couldn't go because last month and I didn't, I couldn't , I'm waiting to talk, that she's busy and only on the phone, she just gave me the treatment and that's why I scheduled Monday. I didn’t ask for too much information, well, probably also herself, let's see what she says, what needs to be done. I can't tell you.
INTERVIEWER: How did you feel about this whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 12: Related to the test?
INTERVIEWER: Regarding the test, the result, so, overall, what did you think of the experience?
PARTICIPANT 12: It's a very good thing from the point of view of this project, it's really beneficial and (...)
INTERVIEWER: The fact that you know is a good thing?
PARTICIPANT 12: A good thing of course, I didn’t tell you, I am of the principle to be told what I have and so to treat what it is. Not to be put off or not to be told because of how I might react. No. For example, I had an experience after the first pregnancy, I had an endometrioma exactly on the c-section and I detected it two and a half years after the birth and he was still growing, growing and she said you get a surgery or you decide if you want to get pregnant to have children, we remove it with the c-section or remove it. I mean, I like it to say, not that you know what, I mean indirectly, no, I like it. I mean, I'm the person who says what it that is, I'm direct, I mean I say what I think and what it is.
INTERVIEWER: Very well.
PARTICIPANT 12: Useful. At least from my point of view I don't like to be hidden from me so that, after all, it's our health and if it's early, you can do it.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think that after receiving a positive result you received enough information and know what you have to do?
PARTICIPANT 12: No. From this point of view no. Well thing maybe I don't know that I probably didn't know or should have addressed somewhere or not, from this point of view not. I didn't even ask, I said, the only person whose result I sent is the doctor and that's why on Monday I will have an appointment to see. I mean, to ask for more information. Or from you, I mean from you in the first place, that nah, I didn't know that. I was told that a campaign would follow, but I did not know what it was and how things were going.
INTERVIEWER: OK. These were the questions basically. If you think you want to say something else, I don't know, maybe you want to share something else with us if not, basically these were the questions. I hope they weren't uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 12: No, from my point of view they are not. I think that if you know what you want and want the best, there are not uncomfortable questions (...).
INTERVIEWER: Do you think that there are cultural, social, financial barriers from your point of view that prevent you from receiving treatment or?
PARTICIPANT 12: Me personally?
INTERVIEWER: Obviously from your point of view if.
PARTICIPANT 12: No no, there isn't. I mean yes, I want I don't know, a more detailed control or let's see what is and how, yes, that's what I want, I mean I don't want to stay with, to have a question marks all the time in my thoughts, in my mind.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! That was it.



Interview 13_ EN

INTERVIEWER: My name is A. D. Mrs. Linda is from Norway on behalf of our partner with whom we are implementing the project and firstly, I will start by giving you here the information sheet about the study we are doing. This study is related to the experiences of women who have had an HPV test. Your participation is voluntary, and it is very important to know that if you ever want to, if you do not want to participate or just need to let us know and anyway all data is absolutely confidential in this study. Your name will not appear anywhere you know. So here, I will give you that our contact details, mine and hers and they will remain with you in case in the future you have more questions, and here is a sheet which I would ask you to complete, I mean there are these that you say you have read, you have read. That you understand that participation is voluntary and that you may request information at any time and destroy the information we have taken, and you agree to participate. And then I'm going to ask you to put your name here. Date, today we are on the 18th and here is the signature. Very well and these remain with me and those remain with you. If you can tell us a few words about yourself at the beginning.
PARTICIPANT 13: My name is F.M.
 INTERVIEWER: How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 13: 43.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 13: Thank you too! As medical data.
INTERVIEWER: Do you live in?
PARTICIPANT 13: Țicleni.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, what if you can tell me something about your work?
PARTICIPANT 13: I work at a hairdresser in Țicleni.
INTERVIEWER: OK.
PARTICIPANT 13: Hairdresser/manicurist.
INTERVIEWER: OK. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 13: Dr. T., I mean since she divorced, is Dr. D.
INTERVIEWER: What if you could tell us a few words about your education? I mean, if you finished high school? No?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes, yes. I finished high school, I'm in a vocational school now, for general health nurse.

INTERVIEWER: Ah OK.
PARTICIPANT 13: I really like it. I can't wait to finish, even I would like to profess.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 13: Aha, 24 years old. From the age of 19. I have two children, a 17-year-old girl, a 12-year-old boy.
INTERVIEWER: Natural births?
PARTICIPANT 13: By cesarean section. By c-section. I have some health problems in the sense that I became pregnant very hard, after eight years with treatment, I had a uterine malformation operated (surgery) in Cluj, at Dr. S. There they have discovered several things including that I have a mosaicism, a mosaic DNA. I have three X's. And from here lots of things followed, several surgeries, pregnancies, a very large ovarian cyst after the operation. All sorts of things, caesareans, as I not allowed being operated to give birth on the uterus, to give birth normally.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 13: I think that what I know (…)
INTERVIEWER: I told you earlier outside that there are no right or wrong answers. It's just your opinion, what you know about cervical cancer.
PARTICIPANT 13: I believe that it comes in the absence of sex education and the fact that not, we in general were not educated so that apart from, since young, to know how to have the right contact (sexual contact), to have the right protection, to. I think that's where it starts and I hope that in my turn I can educate my daughter that I have her of 17 years to avoid the. I even got her the vaccine at 14 years old. Also to avoid this problem as much as possible.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think it is? I mean, what is the cause or what. What do you know about that?
PARTICIPANT 13: Where does the cause come from?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 13: I think the colds (*a usual expression which refers to cystitis or any other irregularities around the genitals) are not treated in time with our indifference as a woman to go to the doctor when we feel a small irregularity, let another day pass and another two to pass. I think that from here most cases go of such things. I don't know if that's right.
INTERVIEWER: I'm telling you that there are no right or wrong answers and at the end you can stay with the doctor anyway to discuss if you want, that’s why we are here and we will answer your questions later. What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 13: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: You don't know.
PARTICIPANT 13: So even if I'm at school I don't know, I even asked myself what would it mean?
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 13: That it is a step forward in finding out if your health is ok or not. I mean, it's something we women should do every year.
INTERVIEWER: OK. When was the last time you did a test? a Babeș Papanicolau test? 
PARTICIPANT 13: Last year exactly when I did this stuff.
INTERVIEWER: And before that?
PARTICIPANT 13: I think a year and a half even two. Something like that.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 13: I don't know much, I know it's an analysis (test) that helps you a lot in finding out if you have cancer in your body, if you have that microbe like that but I don't know much.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes. Right here last year with the help of your caravan.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about this test before?
PARTICIPANT 13: No. I know I've done it before but no, I did some blood for it, but not like that. Not.
INTERVIEWER: So you've never done it before.
PARTICIPANT 13: No, no.
INTERVIEWER: And how did the test experience seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 13: Ok. I didn't find it unpleasant thing, or. OK. The nurses, doctors, how, only then, I have the impression that they were nurses. Yes, ok. Well, that stress that you are waiting, the result, will it be good, it won't be good? But it's OK.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you think this is a painful test?
PARTICIPANT 13: No.
INTERVIEWER: OK. And what information did you receive when you took the test? I mean, you were told what it was for, was it explained to you?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes, yes. I was told, for what it helps me. It came back a positive result, to do another Papanicolau. So I followed the steps I was told.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And the method of sampling was, did the nurses took the sample or anyway?  but did you know that you have the option of self-sampling, which means that you could do your self-sampling at home, would you find it more comfortable?
PARTICIPANT 13: No. Not necessarily because I think it's better to have a medical staff than myself, and maybe I don't do it properly in a sterile environment or all that.
INTERVIEWER: OK, so you prefer the gynecologist.
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer that the gynecologist is a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 13: Woman. I think that's also because I've had experience with doctors before, so I don’t. But I have nothing. This is a profession that is practiced by everyone who chooses it. But if it were, I would feel more at ease.
INTERVIEWER: More comfortable.
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 13: The family doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive after the test? What recommendations did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 13: To repeat with a Papanicolau and depending on the Papanicolau I was given a treatment that I followed then.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a few things about the experience of the test itself, about the experience of the result, what was it like when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 13: Emotionally it was not ok. Because all kinds of things, ideas for the future, everything that happens around you come to mind automatically, but you gather, you go forward, you do. I'm the kind of person who doesn't get agitated (*stressed) until I see something concrete, I mean, even if a seed of uneasiness is implanted in my soul until it's the third hour, as they say, I don't get agitated so much as it would be the end of the world. And I never tried to show it to anyone around me. But it was okay in the end we have to go through them, we have to take life as it is and move on. That's how I see the things, now.
INTERVIEWER: Did you get treatment after? Did you go to the doctor after finding out the result?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell me a little bit.
PARTICIPANT 13: I went to a clinic, so I did Papanicolau at Medlife, a clinic in Târgu Jiu and I did Papanicolau there, a gynecologist saw me, she told me to stay calm (rest reassured). I also had a genital ultrasound, and she really told me that I had a strong infection, a strong cold, only then from what she told me I had, I was very swollen, how can I say, the organs, how to say, not infection, strong cold (*inflammation?) that it what it made me understand. She gave me treatment, I followed it for three months and then I was OK. Now.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you feel about this treatment and the testing experience and the additional testing and?
PARTICIPANT 13: So after a longer medical history, I don't care anymore. You realize that it's not ok, that it's one thing, it's like a program that you have to have every day, do the treatment, do it. But we have to do it, we have to take care of ourselves, we have to go forward for health.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Was it your choice to take extra treatment, was it your choice or was it a guidance or?
PARTICIPANT 13: First of all, it was my choice. I spoke first with the family doctor. It was my first choice and with her advice I went and did it.
INTERVIEWER: You were previously aware of the availability of these additional services to see? Did you know that there are various services?
PARTICIPANT 13: Yes. Not so broadly to know all the details but I knew that certain analyzes are being done, to go and follow them.
INTERVIEWER: OK from your point of view are there any barriers to following a positive test, I mean, after you find out that you have a positive test, are there any barriers that prevent you from moving forward?
PARTICIPANT 13: I want to believe it doesn't exist.
INTERVIEWER: Know that there may be a lack of time, I am not going at the doctor because I don't have time.
PARTICIPANT 13: This is not (...)
INTERVIEWER: I don't go to the doctor because I don't have money, I don't go because I'm too far away.
PARTICIPANT 13: That doesn't exist. These are things that we let ourselves led by, but no. It shouldn't be when they are, the things you go and do and because you are, health in the first place, that we let ourselves be led by society and everything that happens around us is not right. But this happens most often because this is the situation, you see, services and services. We are in a very ugly time in our country, we go through so many things and now you don't even have access to go to a hospital because that's the situation, but I don't see it. It is best to take heart, the life in the chest (*expression, courage and determination to do something), to go and do the right thing with the good and the bad. I want to believe that we, the health system, should still take a step forward with all the madness that happens because there are people who really don't go to the doctor because they don't have money because that's the reality because of society. This is it really.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the need in general to follow these tests, these lesions? What would be needed?
PARTICIPANT 13: So it would take some people like you in the first place not that I want to praise you or I don't know what, but these caravans help people a lot. So first of all, a barrier is money so you go to do some tests are very very expensive and as I said earlier people can't afford it, women can't afford to do that and clearly put something else first. That’s it first and foremost, and we need people like you. I mean, caravans that go, that, and first of all you need the Minister of Health, I mean, those from above, from above to do something. Not to have to, you have to be paid properly, at a high level, everything the be. That is what will not be with us, I think. I don't want to talk more because we get into controversy.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. So all the experience related to the test you did, the result, so as the final thought?
PARTICIPANT 13: Final thought may God give us health to move forward, with good and bad. Even if we have a positive result, life goes on. That's how I see it. And let's be strong because if we're not strong we won't solve anything. Let's be optimistic, positive as people, to see in a bad thing, also to see something good.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 13: Thank you too!

Interview 14_ EN

INTERVIEWER: This interview will be recorded so that we can then analyse the answers. There are no right or wrong answers, it's just your opinion about the questions I have to ask you. My name is A. D. I work at the Cluj Oncology Institute and I am doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian partner and Mrs. Linda is here with us now. Now here is an information sheet about the study we are conducting. I will leave these papers to you and you can read them at home and if you have any questions you can contact us without any problems, my phone number and the e-mail address if you have any questions. Your participation in this study is voluntary. We do not collect data, all data is confidential, your name will not appear anywhere and so on. I leave that to you and here I have a big request for you to write your name, date and signature. Thanks! And now if you can tell us a few things about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 14: 35 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And the domicile?
PARTICIPANT 14: The address from the ID or where do I live now?
INTERVIEWER: Where are you staying?
PARTICIPANT 14: In Țicleni.
INTERVIEWER: So if you can tell us a few things about your education? just what can you tell us.
PARTICIPANT 14: You mean? (namely?) 
INTERVIEWER: What training do you have, what education do you have, what school did you go to?
PARTICIPANT 14: Post-high school (apprenticeship/or a type of college lower than university degree). I'm a nurse.
INTERVIEWER: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 14: I work right here. At centre with the doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And that means you obviously have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Alright, and a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 14: Ms. doctor.
INTERVIEWER: The doctor from here. So. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes. I have a 14-year-old boy.
INTERVIEWER: Natural birth?
PARTICIPANT 14: Caesarean section.
INTERVIEWER: Caesarean section, all right. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 14: Oh my God.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know, what is it? What do you know?
PARTICIPANT 14: I say it is a disease that for some people is with luck for some not. It depends on how advanced stage it is. Yes, an which, I don’t know I thin that we all have these cells in our body, the cancer cells but for some they will develop, for some not. It depends on the body's immunity in each. In my opinion, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the cause?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, the cause can be this virus may. This HPV, which I still can't figure out where it came from, and the transmission is fulminating. So. I do not know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 14: About this one with the Babeș?
INTERVIEWER: So, what do you know about screening programs, if you've ever heard of screening programs? what am they? what?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes. They are very important and very good. It's good that they were set up and that. Well, they can be traced. All kinds of diseases in women.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 14: Well, the test is for detecting cancer cells. Yes. It’s the only one I think which can find out.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 14: Well, I think a month ago. But I didn't get the result. When I went to the doctor's practice, I go and do my Babes about once a year every year since I gave birth to the child. So for 14 years I go every year and I make Babes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, that's what I wanted to ask you.
PARTICIPANT 14: It never came back with changes.
INTERVIEWER: When or how often you do it?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, actually every year. If it were up to me, I would do it twice a year, but he told me that's not the case. The last time I even had results in a Babeș a year ago.
INTERVIEWER: You can show it to the doctor (*I think it’s the doctor they came with?)
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, I have it on whatsapp.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, there is no problem, you can show it to like that too.
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test? What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 14: It's a virus, this papilloma virus that causes cancer and which, in my opinion, I don't know from what I've read, it can’t be cured, it doesn't have a cure for treatment only through that cumimization (*no idea what is that? or what is she saying; a procedure? tried to search for that word but didn’t find something) or what is being done. And that it is transmitted through sexual contact.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the test?
PARTICIPANT 14: I don't know what to say. How is it sampled or what?
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever heard of the test, for example?
PARTICIPANT 14: No. Before coming here to get a sample no. by. Honestly, I haven’t even read about it. No.
INTERVIEWER: So you never did it.
PARTICIPANT 14: Never, no. I was here for the first time.
INTERVIEWER: OK. How did you feel about the test experience? How did the test itself seem to you, the experience?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, I didn't even feel it. It's okay, so anyone can do it. Any woman nah, it’s.
INTERVIEWER: So it wasn't painful?
PARTICIPANT 14: No.
INTERVIEWER: Uncomfortable?
PARTICIPANT 14: Not at all.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did it?
 PARTICIPANT 14: What do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: What were you told about it? Has it been explained to you?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes. Of course, I was told it was for the detection of this HPV virus.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And what sampaling method was used? self-sampling or done by your doctor or someone else did you?
PARTICIPANT 14: So I was sampled, so no.
INTERVIEWER: It was sampled. So they also have the possibility to be self-sampled at home for example.
PARTICIPANT 14: No, no.
INTERVIEWER: And then.
PARTICIPANT 14: It was sampled by a medical staff.
INTERVIEWER: So you'd rather have it done by a doctor.
PARTICIPANT 14: Of course yes. So no, I wouldn't even have the basis to do it at home or not. Best by a specialist.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer gynaecologist, female or male?
PARTICIPANT 14: I don't care. I don't, no, I don't have a preference. To be a doctor. (laughing)
INTERVIEWER: Who recommend you the testing for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 14: Well, it's through, with the occasion of the program when, and it also came through the family doctor and with the ladies. I don’t know, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And after the test, what information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 14: After it has been done. That I will receive the result, to wait to see the result.
INTERVIEWER: OK. And after you got the result if you can tell me a few things about the experience, the experience of the result?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes, it was positive. I was scared, I think I cried then as I was scared. But it's good that it's detected in time and I'm glad I did it and that I found it. To know. Now.
INTERVIEWER: What recommendations did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 14: What recommendations?
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 14: To take my Babeș Papanicolau test. Yes, I don’t know.
INTERVIEWER: And how did you feel about the recommendations you received and just how you felt? And if you thought the recommendations were right for you?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes. So. I don't know much now. It was OK that they recommended me for the first time to Babeșul, not to panic, that everything would be fine and that it would be good to follow this whole thing, so that, and that I would be included in your program.
INTERVIEWER: Did you have any treatment after the positive result?
PARTICIPANT 14: No, no. Well, I don't think it was necessary. I mean, the Babeș says everything, I think, if something is needed.
INTERVIEWER: Ok, how did you feel after the experience, after you found out that you had a positive result and that you had to do further investigations?
PARTICIPANT 14: I was scared honestly until the gynaecologist reassured me and told me to rest assured that over 80% of them have this disease. Now it depends to whom it is activated or not. I do not know. And that at the gynaecological check-up he told me, now visually, that it's OK. Now I don't know, probably if it's something (with) Babeș I should do more, this colonoscopy or.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers to tracking these positive outcomes, the lesions. I mean, are there barriers? I mean I don't know, lack of time, money.
PARTICIPANT 14: No.
INTERVIEWER: Moving to another location or is one if you consider that.
PARTICIPANT 14: I tell you no. So there are no barriers to my health. So I left now during the my worktime to come to. So not really. Not. I believe that health comes first.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think the needs are? What would be the need to facilitate these or what do you think is the need to follow these results? for positive results.
PARTICIPANT 14: Needs. I don't know what you mean?
INTERVIEWER: I mean, what would be need, I don't know, I mean, maybe better information? Maybe I don't know, to receive certain tests free of charge, to change something in?
PARTICIPANT 14: Yes. So, a need I think, now I don’t know if it still helps, about vaccination. With which I would agree even now at this age, but I understood that only until the age of 18. If it was a vaccine and the state might help us somehow, I would agree. If not, I would even do it with money, I would pay for it. Although I know it's not for all strains that vaccine, I don't know, for 8 strains or how many. At least.
INTERVIEWER: And so as a final thought about all the experience itself and everything that happened?
PARTICIPANT 14: I can honestly say I'm a little frightened. So the first thing I thought about was cervical cancer. So I went straight there, but I thought a little bit and I thought that there is no way to get there directly. It's good he's been found. What can I tell you. I'm human, just like anyone else. Especially since I found out about this HPV late. I read in school but I didn't passed over (came across) but I didn’t go into detail about it, but it was such a blow for me. But I hope everything is ok.
INTERVIEWER: Great. Thank you very much and if you have any questions, the doctor is there and you can ask her anything.
PARTICIPANT 14: Can I go to her now?
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Thanks a lot!
PARTICIPANT 14: Thank you too! You are very nice.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you. 



Interview 15_ EN

INTERVIEWER: Can they take a picture of us together, do you mind?
PARTICIPANT 15: No, if it's for research, it's super ok.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you! So, I prepared a source of information here. That will stay with you. Participation is voluntary, we will not use your data in any way, all data is confidential, this is what this paper is about.
PARTICIPANT 15: She can use them, it's a research, up there (*high level) in Norway.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And up there you have our data in case you want to call us or there is something here you will find us and I will leave that to you and on this I will ask you very much to give us your name, date and signature. Thank you very much! My name is A. D. The lady is Linda. I work at the Cluj Oncology Institute, we are doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian partner. If you have any questions, find us here, at these papers that I have given you.
PARTICIPANT 15: I am glad that you have a partnership, you are much more equipped than us.
INTERVIEWER: Well, if you can tell us a few things about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 15: C. L. is my name, I am 51 years old, with 32 years of experience in education I am an educator here in Țicleni. I have two boys. 31 and 29 years and a pain. How can I tell you, a joy and a pain, my boys are in the UK. For many years they are settled there. And they don't come home, just for visiting. Of course, over the years, I don’t know if you probably remember, salary cuts in education and being a full-time educator with all her grades including grade 1, I had or didn’t, I went into a financial collapse and I can tell you that I'm glad I decided to go to work in Germany in holidays. Without any shame.  I wanted for a very long time to get there, to the West. Not so far to reach my children but I saw Germany, I saw France, I saw Switzerland I saw a lot of cities and it's like a joy. What I wanted to say, is that I left with fear and dread. You realize the reductions were, you did too if you worked in the Romanian health system you went through this and I left with a great fear. When I got there, it all went away. I can say that I got rid of that debt and that financial collapse and I didn't stop. Because I'm a brave person. I'm not afraid of anything. Now if I were to say, I would not be able to remain without any job, I would not see (...)
INTERVIEWER: You're ready.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes, but I am ready for anything and brave even if I have an age.
INTERVIEWER: And your husband?
PARTICIPANT 15: I am (...)
INTERVIEWER: Single or divorced.
PARTICIPANT 15: Divorced. And to say I'm a little frustrated, why. Because I'm brave, I managed it. I had good children, I mean I don't talk, I don't brag. And yet I was unlucky enough to have a suitable husband. Yes. I can say that by the time I arrived the children had already grown up, you know if I was raised, educated in Ceausescu's time, I saw it that way, I have to suffer for the children. I wouldn't do that again. Not. And I have enough years until the children grew up and then split up. In 2008 I separated.
INTERVIEWER: Are you still working in education?
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes. Educator.
INTERVIEWER: So that means you have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: So is the family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 15: Mrs. D. A very good doctor and I'm glad I told the ladies, I didn't know she was also a doctor. But I was happy anyway, as I said about the children and I'm glad I'm there and they have a life. Yes, I also have that minus of sadness, and I'm glad that our children are still coming back. They go specialize in the countries but they also come back. Many of our doctors who go to France to specialize, but they are still coming back.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 15: I don't know much. It scares me. From what I read and from what the doctor explained to me. And my fear is that there are always a lot of cases of uterine cancer. Especially since, I have been on menopause since 2017. Since then I have been and then during that period I gained a lot of weight, 14 kilograms, which I lost, put down, put on. But that scares me a lot and that's why I say, what I want to achieve is that I always go to the doctor. I mean, now with the pandemic, if I didn't have access to our hospitals, believe me, I went private. I mean, I did that test here too, the first time a (...)
INTERVIEWER: What do you think it is? What do you think is the cause of cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 15: I have no idea but I think that biologically speaking the gene I say I do not know, it develops more in some because practically we all have this in the body right? But some of them I read and I remember it develops more or less or not. Yes, there are a lot of cases and that scares me. And we still don't go. I, myself at the beginning until I heard a lot of cases here nearby or in the media, I said well, I'm healthy, why should I go. It is not like that. And I told you before I went into menopause I had to go. I draw the attention to women, I cannot say, I hear women I haven’t been to a gynaecological examination since I gave birth or 10, 15 years. It's not good.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard?
PARTICIPANT 15: No, I just saw here on the field, the mobile, on your car. I do not know. I have no idea. What is it?
INTERVIEWER: Later you can ask us the questions you have.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes, I know you don't answer a question with a question.
INTERVIEWER: Then we and our colleagues will answer absolutely any question you want. But there are no right or wrong answers here. That's what you know.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes, my opinion and how informed I am.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. So, what do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 15: All I know is that it detects almost every problem, I mean, for example, if I didn't do Papanicolau, they wouldn't detect my problem, that is, they wouldn't detect it, I mean I would have not know about it.
INTERVIEWER: OK. When was the last time you took a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 15: Eight months ago. I repeated the one from here, a problem came up here. After that I went to the gynaecologist in Târgu Jiu and he repeated it and then I did also a colposcopy, out of fear.
INTERVIEWER: OK and before that when did you last did it?
PARTICIPANT 15: It’s not more than 2 years and and I'm doing a Papanicolau. At one point I went to the doctor and I did it after a year. I said if I still came.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 15: I don't know much. All I know is that I got an HPV 56, yes. I don't really know much.
INTERVIEWER: So about HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 15: No.
INTERVIEWER: You don't know. OK. and when was the last time you did the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 15: Eight months ago.
INTERVIEWER: Then when.
PARTICIPANT 15: And here and I went to Târgu Jiu to my gynaecologist because I was scared and I repeated it and then I did a colposcopy.
INTERVIEWER: And before this did you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 15: Never
INTERVIEWER: Never OK. How did it seem the test experience?
PARTICIPANT 15: Good. I mean, I also woke up. I don’t know how tell you. There are also here doctors and doctors, for example I was going to another gynaecologist and I was very upset with him. I was even a little naughty because I told him I wasn't happy with the service. I mean, he treated me like a. I'm too tough if, anyway. Too fast ahead, I mean he didn't explain it to me. Yes, I know, and I quote everything, but if a doctor tells me, it's different. And I was very upset and then I said that I still treated it as a negligible amount (*neglected/careless). And I say I think they should behave differently because I was so old and I have a job and I'm insured but there are women who don't know, they don't know as much as I do. I don't know enough too, I'm not a doctor either. I don't know if I'm reading and I should explain and talk to them more, that is, nah. Because you're going there, you can't, sit down (*lay down), leave. Gives a prescription. But now I'm very content.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 15: This HPV?
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 15: Initially I just had to do a colposcopy, initially I didn't even know what that was. I didn't know what colposcopy did to you. And honestly, I insisted for an explanation. I also have genital herpes which I don't think I will get rid of as I read, moreover, this problem with herpes and a very low immunity bothered me and I read more about it. But I told you, he explained something to me at that time, and after that I had to go in August, and to my shame I didn't get there, because my children had come and I was happy with them (*enjoying my time with them). 
INTERVIEWER: What was it for in August?
PARTICIPANT 15: For a deeper colposcopy. I don't know what it's called anymore, I'm forgetting it now. Something with a deeper brush, with a brush with little bottles such as for sampling liquid too or.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. For testing do you prefer to go to the gynaecologist or family doctor or where do you prefer to get tested? For example, including HPV at home, you can do self-sampling. Do you prefer?
PARTICIPANT 15: No, never. No, I'd rather go to the gynaecologist because he's the best I can.
INTERVIEWER: And did you prefer a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 15: No, equally. Doesn’t matter what.
INTERVIEWER: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 15: I'm more used to boys.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended the test?
PARTICIPANT 15: Dr. D., my family doctor. And now she gave me to come too.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did he give you when he recommended testing? What did he tell you?
PARTICIPANT 15: Because you are the Oncological Institute of Cluj, the famous, where I was in my youth, I was very ill being and operated with a right fallopian tube infection and I removed the right fallopian tube, and a section of the ovary. And tied to the left, anyway. And operated in Craiova by professor C. So and after that, I was in Cluj I came to Cluj a long time ago in 94, 95 but since then I always went to Târgu Jiu to the gynaecologist. I also did my tests, I mean, I do them, so to speak.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us now about the experience of the result? How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 15: Oh, the sky fell on me when I received your result. You see, I was doing Papanicolau, but I've never heard of this HPV, and no one, that’s why I got mad at the doctor. That it was out there but what do I know to read an educator medical terms. I have no idea. I have no idea. Maybe to see there, to look on the internet to see what that means, what that means. Anyway, the day the doctor called me to pick up the envelope, I didn't open it on the street. I had such a premonition. Because if I opened it on the street, I would have fainted. I went home, I didn't open it until the next day of fear. And when I saw what was there, I quickly looked on the internet to see what it said, I was scared, I told you and I went to repeat it, in Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Did you schedule to repeat the HPV?
PARTICIPANT 15: Da da da da.
INTERVIEWER: But what about the experience of the other test, which was also positive, yes?
PARTICIPANT 15: That's when I encouraged myself. I said that if I go to the doctor in time, I mean I do Papanicolau before, HPV, all the tests, that is, I go to the doctor early, all this is solved, that is, it doesn't scare me to say so. To get a surgery, I mean, to take everything out. I have no problem. It was really hard for me. You see, so healthy to wake up, you say God. I said I was healthy and yet I was not healthy. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Did you have any treatment after finding out the result?
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes. Because as I said, I have that genital herpes and I'm strong but I'm weak, and my immunity drops a lot. And no, I forgot the idea.
INTERVIEWER: If you have undergone treatment.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes, yes. However, in the alternative there is that fear, I did not forget it and fear and crying and so on. The doctor always gives me an example and now the gynaecologist gave me ovules, gave me pills for immunity and gave us an acivlovir and gave me something for that herpes. But at the family doctor's, I always call and come, for example, now I have very big wrist pains, from menopausal, the weight, very big wrist pains, here, here. Well it all goes from here, and here. And I always take medication. Because I have also a coxatrosis.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers to conducting additional tests?
PARTICIPANT 15: There are many barriers to why. As I was telling you, especially let's talk about this pandemic period. Where to go? I went because I was scared and I said Lord to make them not take too long, to make them and yet I was late too. I have a salary, whose children help me. I have a mother with retirement pension. Yes, and I ask myself a poor woman, needy, with what does she go to the doctor? With what? I can say I have two doctors who told me I collaborate with the sickness house, the health house (*minister). You can take a documents (attestation) from the family doctor, from work and you don’t pay so much. What about people who don't have it? It is the barrier, if you have no money. What to do or? Or for example, many times, I gave birth in 1990, 92. I never did a curettage at home as it was done at that time, I don't know if you know how many women died because they curetted (*abortions) at home. I never accepted. No, the doctor has to do this because you're dying. And yes, that's right. The women who made many children, long ago, now I don’t have the same opinion. Women who have many children are thick-skinned (*insensitive, bad). That's not true, they don't have money for curettage. They really have no money. Yeah I think I am right, I am not too stubborn. But there are not, they don’t have money. There are many people who stay at home and are treated at home by ear and are maybe when they are not informed, maybe they do not want to be informed as with this virus. Yes? How many of us are vaccinated, I don't think 30%. How many French people are there? Over 70% of if they did passed. I don't know, the lack of information. And money. It's a barrier.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the need for change? to follow, to?
PARTICIPANT 15: Well, first of all, we have to change ourselves, our conception of whether or not I don't change my conception, and I say, nah, that I've seen different comments about the match (*I don’t know what is she talking about) and about him, but what about slander. It's my conception of a dull. So I say first the concept of life and the world we need to change a little, we little ones. But as I said, I'm very happy to see the exchange of experiences, the West being with us. We in the West, why not? We have to learn from each other.
INTERVIEWER: And in the end, as a final thought related to all the experience you had, so the full experience like that, what?
PARTICIPANT 15: I say we need to self-suggest first. I can tell you, I have such strength when I see myself in the morning a bit uglier, more tired in the mirror, but I still say that I am beautiful. That this self-suggestion, I does me well, is very good very good because I honestly tell you we are a gloomy (sombre)  nation. Does the miss understand everything?
INTERVIEWER: She doesn't understand. She can’t understand. But it will have the translation, that's why we recorded it, it will have the translation.
PARTICIPANT 15: Very well. We are a nation of gloom and upsets (troubled), and so on. But honestly I tell you in the West (...)
INTERVIEWER: She said that we are sad people, you know, in general.
PARTICIPANT 15: Yes. They are not like that, always with a smile on their face, not like us, like that with their head down and bent over. And I'm so sorry. There are difficulties, yes I had the courage, I overcame them, I overcame them. I can say that I encourage everyone, everyone that I see like this, gloomy. Because if we help, we can help why not.
INTERVIEWER: So the test experience was?
PARTICIPANT 15: Hello. I mean, it knocked me down, it knocked me down, it made me aware in a way. That’s what we are talking about, made me aware in a way that we are talking about this, brother, to realize that it is not good to stay. It's not good not to get up. It is not good not to give our opinion on anything. That's my opinion.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 15: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: Thank you for agreeing to participate!
PARTICIPANT 15: Why not.
INTERVIEWER: With great pleasure!



Interview 16_ EN

INTERVIEWER: My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and I am doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian partner, the lady is here and here I have an information sheet for you to give at any time to take it at home if you want. That's right, it's related to the study we're doing. Your participation is voluntary. If you ever want not to participate, you can contact us. The data is confidential and will not be used anywhere. Here is my address and phone number in case you have any more in the future. I leave these to you and here I will ask you to fill in my name, date and signature. Thank you very much! And if you tell us a few words about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 16: 44.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 16: At Țicleni, I live there. Born in Craiova.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you work?
PARTICIPANT 16: I work at the town hall.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Does this mean you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And your family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 16: Dr. D.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. If you can tell us a few things about your education, what school did you finish? What profession do you have? What do you do at City Hall?
PARTICIPANT 16: I graduated from the Faculty of Physics in Craiova. I did a year. Then I got a job at the town hall, I deal with the environment and labour protection. Well and many more. I have two kids.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes. Now I've been married for 20 years.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 16: I have two boys, I gave birth to them in Cluj. Mr. T. from the Stanca Clinic was my doctor. Very nice.
INTERVIEWER: Did you give birth naturally or?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes, naturally. So that's what I was telling the girls and very quickly, pac pac. I gave birth very quickly and very easily. That wasn't all, it went. Well, I went to Cluj also because, I lost a child here in Târgu Jiu in eight months, yes. Now I don't know what was the cause and what happened then when I was told they are not going to live at eight months old, the doctor. I didn't know him, I went. I didn't know anyone there, I just waited there but I went to the Ambulatory and the first one to come first. And he said that here they live also at eight months. Now I don’t  know what happened. What is certain is that everything went well and we are all ok.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 16: I don't know what to say that I would know, that I can appear (...)
INTERVIEWER: What do you know.
PARTICIPANT 16: That we need to do prevention first, checks to help detect it in time, which we may not do.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 16: I don't know if I would know exactly but I don't know if I don't think hygiene is a cause in any form. I don't know, maybe medication, maybe I don't know what.
INTERVIEWER: Anyway, there are no wrong or correct answers here, that's what you know me.
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes. I don't know exactly what's in there.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 16: Not much to say.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 16: How it can he identify any problems that may arise?
INTERVIEWER: Okay, have you ever had a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes. Yes I did in 2018 I went. Well, the first time I did it here and there was a practice here at our place, the doctor who did it scared me a little after the result, I had a HCH on the test. And she called me, she was from Craiova, Mrs doctor, she called me to do a biopsy, which scared me and of course I called the doctor and I went to Cluj and I repeated. It really came out the ascus (* I don't know what she is referring to, terminology or what). After that he did HPV testing for me, not HCH and then he took it out and said that it is not the case to go further, it is not the case of a biopsy or I know other more complicated things to do (...)
INTERVIEWER: OK and when was that?
PARTICIPANT 16: In 2018.
INTERVIEWER: In 2018.
PARTICIPANT 16: Then I did the HPV test and here at Ms. (...)
INTERVIEWER: And before 2018 when did you perform?
PARTICIPANT 16: I didn't.
INTERVIEWER: You didn't.
PARTICIPANT 16: No, no. Not really. I mean, that's the thing, you go from day to day and then the months passes by and nah. There's something holding you back. Probably time and you say ah I can not get sick. Or something like that. It can't happen to me or I don't know what.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 16: That it can, that is, it indicates to you the strains that are so to say that for, how to express myself, responsible for the appearance or that would indicate the appearance of a possible problem on the cervix.
INTERVIEWER: OK and when was the last time you took the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 16: To search in my email? In 2018, yes in 2018 when I did it.
INTERVIEWER: And that was HPV for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: You didn't do it before 2018?
PARTICIPANT 16: No. No. That even after I can't remember here when it was last year?
INTERVIEWER: Last year.
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you think of the test experience?
PARTICIPANT 16: In what sense? If it hurts or?
INTERVIEWER: Yeah, yeah, how the test experience seem to you? 
PARTICIPANT 16: The test involves no pain, no such thing. Only the result, the tension of waiting for the result or (...)
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did it? Have you been told what is it done for, for?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes, it was explained to me. I understood. I've told you before that it can tell if there's anything wrong, any problem and if we need to go on such as biopsy or colposcopy, I don't know if I'm right. Things I didn't do, as the doctor there, he called me and told me to stay calm, he knows I'm a little more scared and desperate so to say. So he told me that I don't have to worry that it's just something, it's not a bacteria, it's something that doesn't require any treatment, just hygiene and ovules from time to time, every three months, six months, which I've never done that right. To my shame.
INTERVIEWER: How was the experience of the positive result? How was it when you found out?
PARTICIPANT 16: At Papanicolau that I have?
INTERVIEWER: HPV.
PARTICIPANT 16: But it wasn't positive, it wasn't negative, was it? No, HPV was not negative.
INTERVIEWER: Only Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 16: Only Pap smear was HCH and then ascus. Here I am, I took a screenshot of the results I received from Cluj by e-mail, yes, I don't know which was the first one.
INTERVIEWER: Have you been to the doctor's house anyway now? Or haven't you been to the doctor's yet?
PARTICIPANT 16: I was.
INTERVIEWER: And did you show it to the doctor?
PARTICIPANT 16: I didn't find them then. I didn't find them then so I looked for them after. Because when you search, of course, I didn't even remember the name of the clinic.
INTERVIEWER: Did you go to a private clinic in Cluj?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes, I went to the doctor at the clinic, the medical centre. I do not know anymore.
INTERVIEWER: Anyway.
PARTICIPANT 16: Napoca Medical Center.
INTERVIEWER: And last year did you do Pap again or just?
PARTICIPANT 16: I haven't done it. This year I had scheduled but I didn't calculate the date well and it happened and I had to give up the appointment, I had to call to give up. And then now I was going to go, I was going to call to do one because it's quite crowded and I kept saying let me call another day, I don't call now and call, to go and do it, even better the doctor this morning came and told me come, the girls are coming and I say, look, God (...)
INTERVIEWER: He puts them all together.
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes, that's right.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 16: Now that I've been there, I have no problem, I have no problem. Since there were also a lot of students when I, so, not anymore, I moved on, not anymore. 
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended testing for you? Who recommended you take the tests?
PARTICIPANT 16: Papanicolau?
INTERVIEWER: Papanicolau, HPV
PARTICIPANT 16: Simply the fact that I did not know, that I never did it and this thing made me go here when the ladies were, it was a medical centre here in Craiova they came, later it closed that it had no activity too big and then (...)
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive? Did you receive any information?
PARTICIPANT 16: I told you when the result came back, he didn’t tell me not to be scared like this, that HCH that's a slightly less modified thing there, so that really scared me when he told me that I have to go to Craiova to have my biopsy done. That's when I associated a biopsy with cancer, and that's it. And of course I didn't go there and I told you, I called and made an appointment with the doctor, I had more confidence to say in, and he didn't even do what the ladies told me. He said the biopsy was not the case given the results.
INTERVIEWER: Did you perform treatment after testing?
PARTICIPANT 16: Yes, he gave me some treatment with ovules. Cervugid, something like that with iodine, I don’t know, I don’t remember what treatment, ovules, only ovules.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And how did it seem this experience of tracking the result?
PARTICIPANT 16: Stressful. Stressfully of course, because it seems to you, that you are thinking, Lord, what it will be, what you will come out of it and at the same time you will think well that I went on this road to see what needs to be done so it doesn’t. But look, you let the years go by, last year it was crazy and you were afraid to leave. That's how time passes. You always finds something else to do, you don't give priority. At least in my case, I don't know. There are also people who are more fighting and more careful so to say. But I say that I am strong and that something worse cannot happen to me.
INTERVIEWER: What are the barriers, what do you think are the barriers to tracking results, to testing, re-testing?
PARTICIPANT 16: Time, time first of all. It puts barriers in your way. I don't know if it's a money problem. No, of course not. Only time and fear probably about the result. You are afraid to go as you might you find out something that would. Not? I say. Or at least this is what I feel.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think the needs are? What need do you think regarding the follow-up of these tests? What need would it be, I know. What do you think should?
PARTICIPANT 16: No, I really don't know what to. Or I don't understand what, I don't understand the question.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the needs or what do you perceive as the need to improve, for example access to testing or?
PARTICIPANT 16: I’m telling you now from my point of view. As I said, although I don't think I would go anywhere else, like here in Craiova or Târgu Jiu I would clearly only go to Cluj. So my confidence is probably in the doctors there. The way they approach you and the way they, and as I said time, mainly time is what makes you give up or let them pass. Now not because I have much to do, I have to go somewhere else, now, I think that's the biggest one. And of course, it's quite a distance for what I want to do. That way, if I went to Târgu Jiu it would be closer but I can't go there, I am no longer sure that you will receive the right and the correct treatment. That's what I think now, maybe it's not like that, that doctors are good doctors. But I feel like I can't trust them anymore.
INTERVIEWER: And so as a final thought, so the whole experience of the positive test, how did you feel that all the experience itself and the fact that you have to do the follow-up tests, to go regularly and the experience itself?
PARTICIPANT 16: It's something each of us should do and not let go. At least once a year to do what needs to be done in terms of consultation. But we don't do it, that's for sure, we don't do it. I don't know if I'm alone or if it’s, but I think there are a lot of people who follow the same criteria, same. Maybe we're just invoking time. Maybe we don't want to make time, I say. I do not know. Really I don’t know.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 16: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: That was all, I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 16: No, no!



Interview 17_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We will record so we can have the answers later so that they can have them too. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj, I am studying on behalf of our Norwegian partner here and I will give you an information sheet that will remain with you. This is related to the study we are doing here. At the end you have our contact details, phone number, email address in case you have any questions in the future you can contact us. And here I will ask you to fill in your name, date and a seed.
Will you like to take a picture?
L: Yes please.
INTERVIEWER: Even if you don't mind for the lady taking a picture of us together.
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes for sure.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you. Know that there are no right or wrong answers. You need to tell us your opinion.
PARTICIPANT 17: I am a nurse and I understand what it is about.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And we'll ask you to tell us a few things about yourself at the beginning. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 17: 43.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 17: ...? (* I can't hear it). From here.
INTERVIEWER: That's right, you live here. So if you can tell us what you're occupation?
PARTICIPANT 17: Medical nurse.
INTERVIEWER: Right, where?
PARTICIPANT 17: In Cărbunești and elsewhere.
INTERVIEWER: Medical insurance?
PARTICIPANT 17: Of course.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 17: Dr. M. who is a family doctor here in (??)
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children too?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, a 23-year-old girl.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 17: Also in medicine, year 5.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. And did you give birth naturally? (* I don’t know if this question is relevant but it’s not asked to all the participants, just randomly asked or maybe there is a reason for this?)
PARTICIPANT 17: Natural, yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 17: What is known to be a serious illness and which if detected early would be very ok. Because some studies have been done and a lot of people die because of it. I don't know what else I can tell you.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the cause or do you know what the cause is?
PARTICIPANT 17: I don't know exactly. It's just that it hasn't been detected, the women didn't go to check in on time and they probably didn't care what happens to the health problems and they got there, I think.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 17: Screening is an early detection of any disease. Not necessarily this case.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 17: The test detects different stages of the disease, not necessarily, an infection, an inflammation, anything related to the cervix, genitals in general, genital diseases. And clearly we must go to the doctor to see what it is all about.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever taken a test?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, yes. Even (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you perform regularly?
PARTICIPANT 17: Usually yes. But in December I did the last one, I got a grade 2 to 3. I had to have it repeated and I had to repeat but when I (...)
INTERVIEWER: So the last time you did it was in December?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, in December. Yes, and it took about 6 months to recover, but we couldn't because of the work. When they could, I couldn't make an appointment.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about HPV? What is HPV?
PARTICIPANT 17: HPV is a disease, it's actually a type of cancer. Now I don't know exactly what and how, I can't tell you exactly.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 17: Well that, the level of the disease. That is, whether it is positive or negative, whether it is positive, it is. You go ahead with the vaccine with everything you need. If it's negative, it's okay. That I know.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, still here and it came out negative.
INTERVIEWER: OK and when did you perform? Still last year?
PARTICIPANT 17: Aa, in November or October when (...)
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever done that before?
PARTICIPANT 17: Not until then, no.
INTERVIEWER: But you've heard about it before.
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, so you know.
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And how did it seem, the test experience?
PARTICIPANT 17: Okay, I mean it wasn't. Like any other control.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 17: I don't know either.
INTERVIEWER: But was it explained to you why you were doing it?
PARTICIPANT 17: Of course at the time of taking the sample.
INTERVIEWER: Who did the harvesting?
PARTICIPANT 17: Also from Cluj, but only if I looked at the paper could I say. Also a team formed from (…)
INTERVIEWER: And do you generally prefer a gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Woman or man?
PARTICIPANT 17: Not necessarily, to be taken in sterile conditions and well sampled.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended the test?
PARTICIPANT 17: No, the campaign was done and then I came.
INTERVIEWER: Okay and you said the test result is?
PARTICIPANT 17: Negative.
 INTERVIEWER: Negative. OK and the pap?
PARTICIPANT 17: Papanicolau came out grade 2, to 3. I have an inflammatory process all the time I get grade II because of colds, because of the environment in which we work and so on. But it works with anti-inflammatory drugs, which means it was nothing. But now I don't know what happened then, they gave me some ovules and that's it.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, did you repeat the test now?
PARTICIPANT 17: No, I should repeat it now, because it was an opportunity and it was very welcomed.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive after taking the test when it came out 2 to 3?
PARTICIPANT 17: To repeat, to do the treatment for three months and then to repeat the test again and if it comes out the same to do a colposcopy.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And how did you experience the result?
PARTICIPANT 17: It was a little worrying because it never happened to be 2 out of 3, but I felt good, I mean I didn't have any other problems.
INTERVIEWER: OK and after the result you said you had been on treatment for three months.
PARTICIPANT 17: Yes, three months of treatment.
INTERVIEWER: And how was that experience, how was it?
PARTICIPANT 17: Okay, I mean I don't know what to say.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about test tracking services, that is, additional testing that needs to be done?
PARTICIPANT 17: In general?
INTERVIEWER: Aha, after a test to say positive or a test that after a result that is not exactly.
PARTICIPANT 17: HPV?
INTERVIEWER: HPV or Papanicolau.
PARTICIPANT 17: Well, go further, that is, to investigate in depth. Depending on, as directed by your gynaecologist. That it shouldn't be left like that. Depending on your health and the doctor's indication, depending on the rest of the tests and investigations, you go ahead, each case with its own particularity.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers for which after a test of, a positive test, I mean there have be barriers to move forward?
PARTICIPANT 17: Barriers in what way?
INTERVIEWER: I mean, I don't know the lack of money, the time, the distance?
PARTICIPANT 17: No, no. Regarding my work, for example, it would be necessary to make some appointments according to our free time, schedule, all this. And then only the time is of the problem. They don't match with each other all the time and that's why. The availability of doctors generally does not match our availability. That was the impediment, not the money. There is money for health, but no matter what, you go and look for yourself. Well if there are bigger problems, I mean, you do your best and you go. It also depends on the level of culture of each and what he wants with his life, it depends on several factors.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And so as a general experience how did you feel about everything, I mean, performing the test, then the result of everything you had to do as it seemed to you as an experience?
PARTICIPANT 17: Nah, overall it was ok. I did the checks all the time as I told you, there were no big problems. I hope they won't be also from now on.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Good. Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 17: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: Goodbye! 



Interview 18_ EN

INTERVIEWER: My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and we are doing this study on behalf of our Norwegian partner and Mrs. Linda is here. Here I have an information sheet about the study we are doing. Anyway I will leave it with you, right here at the end are our email address, phone number in case you want to then contact us and ask other questions. And I will ask you here to write the name, the date and here the signature. Thank you very much! So, if you can tell us a few things about yourself, how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 18: 48.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! and domicile?
PARTICIPANT 18: Here, in Jupânești.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us what is your ocupation?
PARTICIPANT 18: At the moment housewife. I worked for 21 years but I am currently a housewife.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Medical insurance?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes. How to say, I work, but at home. I put the file somewhere and everything goes on. Insurance, absolutely everything.
INTERVIEWER: All right. Do you have a doctor, a family doctor here?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes, I have a 29-year-old girl.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Natural birth?
PARTICIPANT 18: Natural.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 18: What should I know. Basically, I know what.
INTERVIEWER: Tell us what you know.
PARTICIPANT 18: It is described as any other cancer, I do not know what to say. A serious illness. I don't know what to.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, not like that.
INTERVIEWER: OK what do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 18: I don't know, nothing.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes, it is a test which means, I mean, good or bad problems, if it is a sign of cancer or other problems, infections.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 18: Last month.
INTERVIEWER: And before last month when you do it?
PARTICIPANT 18: I don't think a, a maximum of one year to say. No, I think it's been 8 months since I did here at the caravan last year. And then I went to Tîrgu-Jiu to a practice as well and I did. But it turned out well for me, now I don't know exactly what to say, dimensions, these, how they are, the terms.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about?
PARTICIPANT 18: I have a fibroma about which, from here, it is possible to have all the changes.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 18: HPV means changes, not necessarily carcinogenic, as far as I know. Possibly if I have fibroma or cysts or something, changes in the uterus, in the uterus, in the cervix.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 18: Ah, didn't you ask me that?
INTERVIEWER: About the infection.
PARTICIPANT 18: Ah, the difference? That was not specified, but from what I do know is that it would be an infection.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, here at your place, I mean for the first time at the caravan.
INTERVIEWER: And did you hear about HPV testing before or didn't you know about it?
PARTICIPANT 18: No. I used to go to the Papanicolau test all the time, ultrasound, consultation and so on. No HPV no. That was for the first time, went for the first time. I consulted a close doctor, family friend and he didn't scare me about what. He gave me the information. Because I was a little scared hearing that it was positive I thought that.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, that's what I wanted to ask you to tell me about the test experience, how was it?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes, the first. When I heard it, I was totally scared. I panicked a little and took it one at a time, I consulted the first time this doctor who is a surgeon, I asked and then I went to a doctor here in Târgu Jiu and he told me the same thing. I also went to Cluj to a doctor professor L. and he told me not to be scared, he also consulted me after the test I did here, after the result, and he said that I have a very large fibroma. A fibromatous uterus with more cysts and this will disappear in the near future, he told me, that I am entering menopause. It reassured me.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you think of the test experience?
PARTICIPANT 18: In itself?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 18: Normal. I mean nah, what can I say, we should expect anything.
INTERVIEWER: And the moment you found out that you had a positive result? And what information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 18: That's what I told you. That it shouldn’t scare me that it wouldn't be, would be 10% a cancer, let's say, but not yet. At the moment, because that would be fibromatous changes or a lot of cysts. But no one instructed me to operate this or do anything else. He said that it goes in time, in time, I mean no, it stagnates at the onset of menopause. This fibroma I'm talking about. Now I would like to receive more information if anything.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer to go to a female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, it doesn't matter. Of course, preferably she would be a woman, but depending on what.
INTERVIEWER: Okay who recommend testing for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 18: HPV?
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 18: Here, the doctor.
INTERVIEWER: And you haven't heard of it before?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, no, no. Not really.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did the doctor give you?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes, the doctor told me, she said, not information, at the result she told me that something was wrong I must go to see a gynaecologist.
INTERVIEWER: So she instructed you to go further?
PARTICIPANT 18: Yes, a must, the gynaecologist. Yes Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Have you received any other recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 18: I did not receive any other recommendations, except for keeping in touch with this family doctor who is also a surgeon and he told me not to be scared but still to go to the control (check-up) periodically.
INTERVIEWER: And all the experience, and the result and everything you had to do. How did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 18: It seems normal to me because it used to go all my life. I mean, all my time, well, from 14, 15 years to the check-ups and I kept these consultations under control, it didn't seem like anything to me, but only that here now I'm a little confused about this thing. The changes that have taken place lately.
INTERVIEWER: Papanicolau changes?
PARTICIPANT 18: From Papanicolau I have no changes, from HPV.
INTERVIEWER: From Papanicolau you don't have changes only to HPV. Yes, I understood. OK. If you have other knowledge about the availability of other additional tests that can be done?
PARTICIPANT 18: No. I don't know anything else.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers that you would or would not go on to do additional testing? Do you think there are barriers?
PARTICIPANT 18: There are no barriers, but I think that making them is enough. I mean, I don't see what else I could be told. If these are conclusive, to me they seem sufficient.
INTERVIEWER: And for these you think there are barriers, I mean I don't know the lack of time.
PARTICIPANT 18: No, from my point of view there is nothing. So from now on I go and consult with everything possible. But I usually do Papanicolau twice a year.
INTERVIEWER: And do you do it because it was recommended?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, I do it just for my psyche (mental wellbeing; *it’s kind of a saying)
INTERVIEWER: And do you go to the private practice or?
PARTICIPANT 18: I went both. When I had the opportunity to go where I heard that they are still made for free, I went, but usually in private because lately in these hospitals are no longer made.
INTERVIEWER: OK and what do you think it would be, I mean what should be needed to access medical services more easily? what would be needed?
PARTICIPANT 18: For me personally or in general? In general, it would be like how can I say, a need. No, so from my point of view I don't see any need. I go as many times as needed and as many times even if I don't need to go. I don't see what is needed but from other people's point of view there are needs. Financial, they are also mental, not everyone is documented (informed), I say but from my point of view it does not exist. I really went.
INTERVIEWER: And so the whole experience as it seems to you, that you went through this experience? How does is seem to you overall?
PARTICIPANT 18: What can I say. I was traumatized I can't say I haven't been since I heard the result of HPV. But I'm trying to recover. I heard, I was told that it is not so serious or it is not very serious or it is not serious, that everything is, it is treated. Now, that's what I was told, that's why I came here. I said that I come with more experience, yes and to get another piece of advice if it is serious or not.
INTERVIEWER: Those were the questions about the experience you had. If you want to share something with us?
PARTICIPANT 18: No, that's what I want to know, the final result if it’s cancer or not.
INTERVIEWER: Well, that's after you do the extra analysis and additional tests. Talk to the doctors and see what they tell you.
PARTICIPANT 18: From now on?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, stay and talk to the doctors to see what other recommendations they will give you.
PARTICIPANT 18: Well, and you can't you tell me?
INTERVIEWER: I'm not a doctor, so everyone’s with their own business (work). Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 18: With great pleasure.



Interview 19_ EN

INTERVIEWER: This interview will be recorded and then we will analyse the answers you gave. The answers, there are no right or wrong answers just your opinion on a few questions about the test and about what you know. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Linda is our Norwegian partner on whose behalf we are conducting this study. I will leave you here some information about the study we are doing. The data is confidential, your name will not appear anywhere or, and at the end you have our phone number, if you have any questions you can call us or write to us. I will ask you here to write down my name, date and signature. Here's the date, 18. Yeah, it doesn't matter anyway. And here a signature. Great, thanks a lot! And I'll start by asking you a few questions about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 19: 58.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 19: Here in Jupânești.
INTERVIEWER: In Jupânești.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: OK. Can you tell me what you're doing? I assume retired?
PARTICIPANT 19: Retired, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you work for before retirement?
PARTICIPANT 19: I worked at orders in tailoring.
INTERVIEWER: OK if you can tell us something about education, what school do you have or not?
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes. First step, high school, professional.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 19: A boy.
INTERVIEWER: A boy, a big one I guess.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, 36 years old.
INTERVIEWER: So, many ahead! You obviously have health insurance because you are retired.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And your family doctor? 
PARTICIPANT 19: So Miss here, T.D.
INTERVIEWER: OK. Good. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 19: It is a serious illness. What more can I say.
INTERVIEWER: What you know, what you say, you know, what. Whatever you can tell us.
PARTICIPANT 19: What can I tell you.
INTERVIEWER: If you know the cause, why does it occur? why does it appear?
PARTICIPANT 19: Ah I don't know what to say, I don't know. From infections, colds? (*Not sure she is saying cold but she might /can’t hear well and if she refers to ‘colds’ it could mean still something around the sexual reproduction health).
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening, have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 19: I heard but I don't know what it is.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 19: Papanicolau?
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 19: Well, the test that proves you have cancer or not, right?
INTERVIEWER: Aha. Have you ever done a Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, I did.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 19: Well, a caravan came from Cluj. I think five years, it will be 6. (ago).
INTERVIEWER: It was us too.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes. Then it turned out well, with the Oncology from Cluj, I went to see Dr. G., I took (...) (*can’t hear what the participant is saying because interviewer speaks over)
INTERVIEWER: Exactly.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, I sat there and did it.
INTERVIEWER: OK and after, have you ever done it or just then?
PARTICIPANT 19: No, no, because they said it was valid for five years, it's been six years, I don't know. So it's over five.
INTERVIEWER: OK and before the test you did then before that when was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 19: I haven't done it before.
INTERVIEWER: You've never done it before, that's the first time.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: OK. What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 19: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: You don't know. Didn't you hear?
PARTICIPANT 19: I did a test here and it didn't work out well. I have the envelope with me (envelope with the result). 
INTERVIEWER: OK. Have you never had an HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 19: No. They recommended I do a Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: So that was the first time you did HPV. OK. How did it seem the test experience?
PARTICIPANT 19: What can I tell you. When did I get the result?
INTERVIEWER: When you received the result, yes.
PARTICIPANT 19: You realize I was shocked.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a little bit about your experience.
PARTICIPANT 19: What can I tell you, at that time I was sitting with my nephew, the children were gone to England. And I was a little confused. What to say. Like now, that even now I'm not clear. Let's see the what the Papanicolau shows because I haven't been able to do it since.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 19: I don't know anymore, I don't remember. I don't remember the details, you know. 
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive after receiving the result?
PARTICIPANT 19: Well, miss doctor opened my envelope, the envelope was sealed and told me to do Papanicolau, because that's what it is recommended in there.
INTERVIEWER: Did she give you any other recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 19: No, just Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer to go to the doctor, the gynaecologist for additional tests? Woman or man?
PARTICIPANT 19: Woman.
INTERVIEWER: Aha. OK. And did anyone recommend testing for the first time? You did a Papanicolau five years ago, and now who recommended you do it?
PARTICIPANT 19: Well, I came after the prescriptions as I come monthly and the young lady told me that you come from Cluj and if I want to do it.
INTERVIEWER: So she recommended you.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell us a little bit about all the experience you had with the test, with the result, we are interested in this.
PARTICIPANT 19: Well, what can I tell you. I already told you, when I received the result and she told me that the sealed envelope had come, you realize that (long break, she doesn't finish her thought). And now I have such a confusion and a fear and that's it. I had another operation in Cluj, 21 years ago. On my right chest (*no idea what is it) I had a closed canal, but it was good, after ten days I called and it was good. At the oncology there.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the tests that are done after a positive result of an HPV test? Do you know anything about them or not?
PARTICIPANT 19: No.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the barriers for women to fail doing screening tests? (* I don’t know why the word screening is used when the participant said she doesn’t know what it is). When, for example, after a positive test? Do you think there are barriers? I mean, I know, lack of money, time, distance from, to travel.
PARTICIPANT 19: Yes, I think there is everything. There are more, there are more criteria.
INTERVIEWER: And so the overall experience with the test, with the fact that it was here that you did it? How did it seem?
PARTICIPANT 19: What can I say, here I was closer to. The truth is that I was very afraid of the result even npw. My husband encouraged me, he gave me money, I didn't manage to do it because I had my nephew in my care. That was it, the children are gone. Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. If, I don't know if you still have something to share with us about this.
PARTICIPANT 19: No. What more can I say.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, well thank you very much! that you took the time to answer our questions.
PARTICIPANT 19: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: Goodbye!


Interview 20_ EN
 
INTERVIEWER: We will record this interview to then analyse the answers. I will first give you an information sheet that will remain with you and that you will read, it’s related to what we do. All the data will be confidential and in the end if you have any questions, you can find here my phone number, email address if you want. To be all right, and then here I will give you the map and ask you to write down your name, date and signature there in the first row.
INTERVIEWER: And let's start with a few words about yourself, tell me how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 20: 35.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 20: Bustuchin.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, you're here, you live here.
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us what you do?
PARTICIPANT 20: Housewife.
INTERVIEWER: You are a housewife. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, from the husband.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, then the husband has and you are co-insured.
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, co-insured by the husband.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Have you worked before?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, I worked for 8 months.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, two.
INTERVIEWER: Ages?
PARTICIPANT 20: 15 and 13.
INTERVIEWER: Born naturally?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes, I gave birth naturally to both of them.
INTERVIEWER: How did you feel about the test experience? How was the test, the first one you did last year? How did you feel? (how did it seem)
PARTICIPANT 20: When I did it was OK only when I got the result it was (nervous laughing).
INTERVIEWER: So, tell us about it.
PARTICIPANT 20: When the result came I panicked. I can tell you that I was very scared, I went directly to Târgu-Jiu I did Papanicolaou in private (private clinic). And they told me there that it was okay. I've calmed down since then.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 20: No.
INTERVIEWER: You haven't heard. OK and have you heard about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about? Know that there is no wrong answer, just what you think, your opinion.
PARTICIPANT 20: In my opinion, what can I say, that is, it is something bad, that is, something serious.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know, what did you hear? What is the cause, how does it appear?
PARTICIPANT 20: I have not heard the cause, nor how it appears.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever performed except from now, before?
PARTICIPANT 20: No, never.
INTERVIEWER: And not even last year?
PARTICIPANT 20: No.
INTERVIEWER: OK and the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 20: I didn't do that one until last year.
INTERVIEWER: And have you heard of him before or not?
PARTICIPANT 20: I hear, I heard, but I didn't know much.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about Papanicolau, for example?
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: You just didn't do it.
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Same with HPV.
PARTICIPANT 20: Yes. I heard about it but I didn't do it.
INTERVIEWER: All right. If, when you performed (did it) did you receive any information?
PARTICIPANT 20: The information was that I received it and it came out positive. I thought to myself, I thought it was cancer, directly.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell us about this experience, and what did you do after, and how did you somehow manage this situation?
PARTICIPANT 20: Direct. I left work directly to Târgu-Jiu. I did Papanicolau. I stayed under stress until the result came back. When the result came back from there everything was OK.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. And who recommended you the testing? (Referring to Papanicolau)
PARTICIPANT 20: Me alone. Myself. (laughing)
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive after you did the test, I mean did you receive complete information or before the test about what you are going to do?
PARTICIPANT 20: Before the test he told me not to panic. To stay calm, that it's not exactly the way it is. Then I did the test, the result came and then I calmed down.
INTERVIEWER: Have you had any treatment?
PARTICIPANT 20: No.
INTERVIEWER: You have not had any treatment after. Can you tell us a little bit about the positive side of testing? What was positive about the fact that you still did the testing? What did you find positive about this? 
PARTICIPANT 20: To be honest, I didn't even want to do it. For me getting to know that I have something (a problem) better not do it. Even now, I didn’t want to do it again but I repeated it, to see how the result will come out now.
INTERVIEWER: Good luck! And what should be the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 20: Negative part. I do not know what to say.
INTERVIEWER: Or maybe I don't know do you have any concerns about the test, the result?
PARTICIPANT 20: Now honestly, yes, until the result comes back I will have a little stress again. That I don't know how it will come.
INTERVIEWER: All the experience from the moment you took the test until the moment you received the result if you can tell us something?
PARTICIPANT 20: I mean, what can I tell you?
INTERVIEWER: So, your experience. How did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 20: When I heard about this test, I said that it was good to have it done and to know. But after I did and it came out positive. I was disappointed with the result.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are certain things that can prevent you from, from doing it right/regularly? But do you think there has to be something like, what we can do to improve?
PARTICIPANT 20: Not yet.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, fine. We thank you a lot. (It seems that some came there and the interview couldn’t continue properly so it ended).



Interview 21_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record and then analyse the answers you gave. I have an information sheet here and that you were chosen to participate here because you had a positive result. Participation is voluntary. The data is confidential and in the situation you want to contact us at this address or this phone number here is my number.
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, but I don't see much without glasses.
INTERVIEWER: It's okay, I'll leave that to you anyway, and here I'm going to ask you to give me your name and date and signature. Today is the 18th, the 10th, 2021.
PARTICIPANT 21: And here?
INTERVIEWER: A signature. Thank you very much. If you can tell me a few words about yourself, how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 21: 53 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 21: Here in Bustucheni the village of Motorci.
INTERVIEWER: OK. Are you retired now?
PARTICIPANT 21: I have of disability.
INTERVIEWER: You have.
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, because I didn't work because of my leg.
INTERVIEWER: Because of the leg. Ok so you have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And a family doctor here?
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, yes, here is Dr. L.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes. I have two boys, two granddaughters (...)
INTERVIEWER: Ah big already, the boys.
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, the eldest boy is 36 years old, the youngest is 29. And the nieces, one is 7 years old and one is 5 years old the eldest one, the other one is unmarried.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer? Only what you know, there is no right or wrong answer. What do you know?
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, apart from a virus as this that settles on your cervix and you can, it can cause cancer, otherwise what else can I say, because of a virus. There is nothing else.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 21: No.
INTERVIEWER: But have you heard of the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, yes. This I sampled it (...)
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 21: It’s detecting the virus. A virus that can cause cancer, I know.
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 21: Last year in February, last year, this year in 2021.
INTERVIEWER: OK before that?
PARTICIPANT 21: I've been repeating it for about ten years every year.
INTERVIEWER: So you did it on a regular basis.
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, yes every year until 2019, in 2020 it didn't come out well then it really didn't, same, some kind of change and he gave me some treatment. I did it in Cărbunești in the hospital and the doctor gave me some antibiotics, I introduced some pills and I repeated it again in 10 or 12 days and then it was fine. After repeating that he still said that it was either a hormonal change that he was entering menopause or that there was a virus, then, but after five days of treatment with antibiotics, with, I put some pills on down there and I stayed five days to be cleansed, and I repeated, and it was well. After that in 2020 as I did in 2021 in October when I was. No, in 2020, in 2020. When I did this HPV and it came out well and in February (...)
INTERVIEWER: That’s what I wanted to ask you about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, it's a virus that because of it you can get cancer, that prevents, like, prevents cancer.
INTERVIEWER: So that what I said when I took the HPV test last year?
PARTICIPANT 21: In October.
INTERVIEWER: In October.
PARTICIPANT 21: Just a year ago, it was about 20, 20 and something like that.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever done HPV before?
PARTICIPANT 21: No.
INTERVIEWER: Was that your first time?
PARTICIPANT 21: It was the first time, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of HPV before or was it the first time?
PARTICIPANT 21: I've heard of HPV before, yes, they said it's about the equivalent of Papanicolau, that Papanicolau is better than HPV.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And what other information did you receive about the test?
PARTICIPANT 21: I didn't really get that if I didn't have gynaecology problems I didn’t go much. I only had problems some few years ago, I repeated it and if it worked out all right, it was all well.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a little about the test experience. How was the sampling? How did the testing seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 21: It was good, it was ok.
INTERVIEWER: Painful?
PARTICIPANT 21: It was great. No no. I really didn't feel it. Now you feel something little. When I did it last year, I didn't feel anything.
INTERVIEWER: So embarrassing?
PARTICIPANT 21: No.
INTERVIEWER: It doesn’t exist right?
PARTICIPANT 21: No.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you prefer the gynaecologist to be a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 21: If it’s a specialist, it doesn't matter. Of course, as any woman a woman is better, you talk better with a woman and she understands you better than a man once he doesn't have, how can I say, like us, he doesn't understand pain and the cycle and that, a woman understands better.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommend you the testing first or how was it?
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, we were informed from the town hall. They are assistants at the town hall and they announced this to us by phone. I was called by our nurse as she has my number. And she called me if I wanted to come to do a sample for HPV (...)
INTERVIEWER: So, what information did they give you, what did they tell you?
PARTICIPANT 21: If I want to come and sample, because they do HPV sampling. Not too many because they also don't have the time, the patients and this and I can’t (...)
INTERVIEWER: So after the sampling and after you got the result?
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes, the doctor called me himself. The doctor called me and told me to come and get (...)
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a little bit (...)
PARTICIPANT 21: The result (...)
INTERVIEWER: Yes, this with the result after you get the result?
PARTICIPANT 21: It was hard for me that the doctor didn't explain anything to me, he told me to take the result that they didn't come out well and to go to Târgu Jiu somewhere to do a Papanicolau to see there and that's all I would say. Because I asked him, doctor is it something bad? He said nu, it’s a virus which is installed there and need to be detected on how and what by a gynaecologist.
INTERVIEWER: And how was that experience of a positive result? How was it for you?
PARTICIPANT 21: Yes it was, it was bad as you can realize. I went through a lot with my foot I had 3, 4 operations, I was in a coma I was and. I'm, I feel bad to hear this. I told you, I had a bile (gall) surgery now in April and of fear and pain and of this I got so depressed how to say, I don't know, I'm anxious, I'm taking some pills, I'm always scared. A fear, because I know what I've been through. And I don't know, now I'm like that, I remained like that (*anxious). I was scared and I went and did a colposcopy and again, the doctor said it was nothing.
INTERVIEWER: So (...)
PARTICIPANT 21: You know how it is (...)
INTERVIEWER: And what was this following up experience like? How was this colposcopy?
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, until I went and that was bad and I kept being scared, but when I went to the doctor and she told me I had nothing, I kind of. But you realize that once I know the virus is there, she said the virus is installed, that it didn't cause anything serious and that, you remain with a bit, with fear.
INTERVIEWER: Did you have any other treatments after finding out the result? Did they give you anything else, any other recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 21: No, she gave me a prescription that I brought, I showed it to the doctor, both for me and my husband. That she said she might be with her husband too, and if we were both had contact and we both took ten days, I don't know what, how they are called. Some pills. And that’s it, and he said to come back and repeat in October, to do another Papanicolau and then we'll see again and we'll talk and, I wanted to go next week.
INTERVIEWER: And we came.
PARTICIPANT 21: And you came, maybe my luck.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Can you tell us the positive side of the test from your point of view? What was positive about this whole story? Even if the test, the result was not very good. What do you think is the positive side? The fact that you found out in advance, that you know, that.
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, what can I tell you, that it is good to prevent anything beforehand because if you prevent more ahead of time, you will have an escape if it's not, it’s too late. For example, when I had surgery I was with a 36-year-old girl who looked like my child, I had a gallbladder surgery and she found out she had stomach cancer too late. She vomited, she vomited. She did ultrasounds, but she didn't do any endoscopy or barium or a ray on her stomach, she said she had her gallbladder strangled. And now that he couldn't take it anymore, then in April she came and did it in to her stomach and it was too late, she had cancer, I don't know what grade, she was in Cluj no longer, she hasn't come out since then he has suffering terrible until now in September, on the 8th, the 10th she died. And these 6 months have been an agony. But it was awful for her, she would vomit, she would eat and put a spoonful of soup in her mouth or a spoonful of water and she would vomit and vomit and vomit. And that scared me. If it's early, if she would have come earlier, she would have had chances.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of testing? Is there any? Do you think that? I don't know what you think. Any negative experiences.
PARTICIPANT 21: Well, I don't know what to tell you. There are, yes, also negative parts, which are not consumed like that, which are not afraid, they have not passed, well, once you go through illness and experience and through these you are sure to have a fear and a fear and a, I tell you how I went through the things with my leg and once you know nothing. I've been to hospitals before, I've seen one another, I've heard more. Yeah, those who didn’t go and don’t know, as it was this girl with us it’s better not to know what I have. Well not, better to know so you can treat yourself. 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the obstacles for women not being tested or the obstacles to going to the doctor or getting tested or?
PARTICIPANT 21: I don't know the obstacle, for them, for us, for women in general is this of not wanting to, they don't want to, they don't want to know what they have. This is the obstacle not another (...)
INTERVIEWER: Can there be a lack of time?
PARTICIPANT 21: But time, you do it (*you make time) if you want to look for your health.
INTERVIEWER: Money?
PARTICIPANT 21: Money. Yes. And that's a problem first and foremost, money. That we all suffer and at least somewhere where it is free or a hospital with a referral that I also did all the time in the hospital with referral if I was insured, that you realize me too, I have 3 million 700 (370 RON) what to do with them? But with referral I did it at to the hospital, if it was good or it wasn't good, I received the result well. Now, I relied on it for good, but those who are insured can go to the hospital with a referral and do it for free. If you don't have money. But I say that you can make time because there are many who have a lot of time to go around, to do but they don’t care, for them it’s better not to know (*sounds a bit critical/sarcastic). 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think should be improved? Done better?
PARTICIPANT 21: I don't know, the medical system, with this, informing women, to inform them because there are many who have no idea about anything in their body. They don't know anything, how to explain it to you. There are, with many who don't, they've never been to the hospital, don't know what that pain is or what this virus is like. What is virus. If you're telling a woman, I don't know if older but also the younger ones they don’t take this into consideration. I don't know more about communication in the medical system. For example, how do you do it, you know? To explain that it's still dangerous so in the end is not unseen (neglected). To overlook. This is a situation for women. A communication, an information. 
INTERVIEWER: And so as a final thought, as a total experience and now how did you feel? So in the end a final impression. Overall, all the experience, from the test, to the result, to everything, all the experience itself?
PARTICIPANT 21: Good. Good even though it didn't work out for me. What can I say, and then the medical staff were great. As you know how it is, and if it hurts a bit that I went to the emergency room and I told you in the hospital, an experience was in Cluj and I had surgery with my foot and I stayed in Craiova for two months and I stayed in a coma for two weeks with. But when someone speaks nicely to you, it's like you're in pain. No matter how much you feel, how hard and bad it will be when you hear someone, a doctor, or that he speaks nicely to you and feels like the pain is a bit relieved, it seems as if he is no longer in pain. When, when you ask for something that happened to me in Craiova and to myself and my husband who was next to me, that they reject you and speak badly to you and I don't have that, I don't have that. Until 2001, when I had an operation, it happened to me, the hospital in Craiova, which was big, didn't even have Algocalmin (painkiller), and I bought it. But one is when they tell you we don't have funds, we don't have, and one is when they tell you, Sir, if you don't want to complain anymore, go and buy. Or if you don't want to see or hear her in pain anymore, go and buy that the hospital doesn't have. So it's something disappointing. And one is when you explain to the man, we do not have funds or we do not have now in pharmacies are not for a few days, buy if you have money if I don’t know. First of all, as I said, there are people who don't have the money for an algocalmin how to buy it, poor people. There, all the time in the hospital they should have it to make a difference. Others still have, others don’t have anymore (*she talks about money).
INTERVIEWER: So overall it was a good experience.
PARTICIPANT 21: Good.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, thank you very much for staying and answering our questions. That was it, we hope it wasn’t too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 21: No. No, I enjoy talking. At first it was hard for me, it was very hard for me. For a few years it was difficult for me to integrate into society like this without a leg, I didn't accept myself, I didn't leave. But after all, with the help of the children, of my man, I had a good husband. Like this, very kind-hearted. I integrated. Anyway, even now, I am like this. Because many times my friends and people often tell me that it doesn’t seem that I don't have a leg, because I walk, because I am doing, but well, it comes back (...)
INTERVIEWER: You're strong. (*I found this interview very disturbing, especially because of the interruptions, when the participant just needed to talk)
PARTICIPANT 21: Nah, but when someone turns seems like I feel that. But how can I tell you. I still feel appreciated by everyone. What I went through and I was strong and we raised our children and I kept my family and cattle and I and my grandchildren I also had a wedding with the boy and I am appreciated and I feel appreciated and loved. Now that I've integrated into society, I don't feel like someone is looking at me as look, Lord, doesn’t have a leg. Now I understand and I have long understood, no. Now that people are looking for some appreciation for what I went through, what happened to me and how I am and I was strong, everyone appreciates me for being strong.
INTERVIEWER: That's right.
PARTICIPANT 21: I was strong. I passed very badly through the accident, I told you, to see yourself at 33 without a leg suddenly, and I was in a coma for two weeks, I didn't know I had three surgeries, that the first time they tried to restore my leg, a seven-hour anaesthesia operation. After that, it didn't work, the doctors told me that he had to cut the leg, the husband did not accept in any way that he said that he promised that they will redo it, the leg. The bones could have been recovered, only the veins if they were rubbed, it was so dragged, it could not add (unite them) my vein here with this one. And he tried, and at 24 hours I went into another operation and again with 9 hours or so, and they cut it. He cut it. After three weeks they kept me there (...)
INTERVIEWER: The important thing is that you are well now and (...)
PARTICIPANT 21: So, he took my plastic surgery from here, I took all my skin and put it there. At the age of 4, another thread came out that did not melt and I did it then, I went to Cluj and did another surgery and it was removed. So I went through (...)
INTERVIEWER: You've been through a lot.
PARTICIPANT 21: Through many, yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: We wish you good health and many thanks once again.
PARTICIPANT 21: You too!




Interview 22_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We will record this discussion and then analyse the answers. My name is A. D. I work at the Cluj Oncology Institute and the lady is Linda and she is on behalf of our partner from Norway. And here I have prepared an information sheet for you that I will leave to you. And if you have any questions in the future or want to contact us, here are our contact details at the end. It is for participation in the study. These remain with you and here I will ask you to please give me a name, today's date and a signature.
PARTICIPANT 22: Signature I give but writing not.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, I'm writing.
PARTICIPANT 22: Where do I sign, I don't really see.
INTERVIEWER: OK, so tell me your name.
PARTICIPANT 22: E.C.
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 22: I did it at Prigoria before.
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 22: Yes, and I don't think that went well. (/came out well – she is referring to the result)
INTERVIEWER: Let me ask you a few questions. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 22: 56, I’ll be 57.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And the home, where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 22: Prigoria.
INTERVIEWER: You live here. And if you can tell me what do you work or what did  you work?
PARTICIPANT 22: I am housewife.
INTERVIEWER: And now you're retired?
PARTICIPANT 22: No.
INTERVIEWER: Not yet.
PARTICIPANT 22:  The husband.
INTERVIEWER: And do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 22: I have from my husband.
INTERVIEWER: So co-insurance.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 22: Four births.
INTERVIEWER: Four! Long live! How many children do you have now? so 4 births, 4 children all?
PARTICIPANT 22: Da da da.
INTERVIEWER: Ok.
PARTICIPANT 22: I have a granddaughter.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, long live you! God bless! What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 22: Well, I didn’t do the check, I did it at Prigoria then. I never even went to see how it turned out, positive or not.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about this disease?
PARTICIPANT 22: I don't really know so, no.
INTERVIEWER: So you know what's the cause, for example?
PARTICIPANT 22: Cause, so far I have not had a leak (discharge), I have nothing. So I was clean. Nothing else, what should I know. Because I didn't do it, once at Prigoria and now here, because I didn't do it until this age.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test? Have you ever heard of the Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 22: I’ve heard but I don't really know what's going on.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever done that? Did you do it or was the first time you dit it at Prigoria?
PARTICIPANT 22: La Prigoria.
INTERVIEWER: At Prigoria last year?
PARTICIPANT 22: Yes, yes, I haven't done so far.
INTERVIEWER: And until that time never before?
PARTICIPANT 22: Never, no.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 22: I don't think I know that if not, nah.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever done it or?
PARTICIPANT 22: No, never.
INTERVIEWER: So that was the first time last year when we came up with the campaign.
PARTICIPANT 22: Yes. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And how did it seem? the test, the experience.
PARTICIPANT 22: Well, it was good the experience.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me a little bit about that?
PARTICIPANT 22: It was very good. No, I had no reaction after I did it. I had absolutely nothing. I don't know what it will be.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive then?
PARTICIPANT 22: Well, I don't even remember. He handed me that and I sent my daughter in law to the family doctor and he said he was fine. To read it to me, that test came to me. Well, I don't think it came out, it was, tell me.
INTERVIEWER: Positive?
PARTICIPANT 22: Yes, it came out positive. And so if it goes wrong, a treatment, something can it be given?
INTERVIEWER: Who took/did your test? 
PARTICIPANT 22: Well, I also came here to the town hall here or I don't remember who brought it to me there. I do not remember.
INTERVIEWER: And for example, do you prefer to go to the gynaecologist now? I mean, or how do you feel more comfortable seeing a gynaecologist, do you prefer it to be a woman, to be a man?
PARTICIPANT 22: I want a woman because with a man I am ashamed (more like embarrassed).
INTERVIEWER: And who recommended the testing for you? How did you get here?
PARTICIPANT 22: Testing, how?
INTERVIEWER: I mean, who recommended you the first time, who told you?
PARTICIPANT 22: Well, this is the first time, if it came to me, you did it at Privoria, positive. Eh positive, or whatever.
INTERVIEWER: And after you took the test, what information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 22: I did not receive anything.
INTERVIEWER: And recommendations, what recommendation did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 22: I didn't receive any, anything.
INTERVIEWER: Weren't you told what to do, where to go?
PARTICIPANT 22: I was not told anything.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And how was it with the result?
PARTICIPANT 22: The result was positive. I also read there, that if it was negative.
INTERVIEWER: But when you received the result, how was the experience of the result?
PARTICIPANT 22: It was kind of like, so I thought, there is something wrong if it's positive, if it was negative maybe it was better. And look, I didn't go anywhere.
INTERVIEWER: And you haven’t been anywhere.
PARTICIPANT 22: No.
INTERVIEWER: But why? What is he reason for not doing anything or you didn’t do. 
PARTICIPANT 22: Just like that, I neglected and never went. Of course, pain or something like that I don't, so to speak. Good that God forbid, if there's cancer or something, it hurts. Until the last, last phase. I do not know
INTERVIEWER: Maybe not enough time or?
PARTICIPANT 22: The time, both at home and at our place, and the lack of money because there aren't many. I also have children, I have them with me, one works, two do not. One went again over there (abroad/migration), being with their business. And with a small pension it's all hard to keep us all. I mean, it’s on an illness case (pension/retirement) this one too, so.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of taking the test?
PARTICIPANT 22: I was very glad I did it, but I didn't go to get a result from somewhere, for someone to explain to me what it is, what it isn't.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of the fact that you did it, the test, does it exist?
PARTICIPANT 22: It exists because I want to know what I did anyway. Am I doing a treatment or nah (this nah is like what, just an interjection).
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns regarding the test?
PARTICIPANT 22: It's a tiny bit, because I know what it will be.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think we could improve that could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 22: Well. All to be well, a treatment or something.
INTERVIEWER: And so, overall the whole experience as it seemed to you?
PARTICIPANT 22: I thought it was a little bit difficult because if it didn’t come out well (the result).
INTERVIEWER: If you want to tell us something else, if?
PARTICIPANT 22: What to, I don’t have what to.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much.






Interview 23_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We will record this discussion so we can then analyse the answers. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda and she is here on behalf of our Norwegian partner. I'm going to ask you a few questions. First I will give you an information sheet that you can take with you, you can also read at home about the confidentiality of the information you provide us like this. At the end you will find our contact details, telephone number, e-mail address in case you want to contact us, all our details to you. And here I will ask you to give me a name, date and signature. And I'm going to ask you to tell me some things about you. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 23: 34
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 23: Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 23: Here, Roșia de Vanadă (? Not sure I understand the name of the location).
INTERVIEWER: What do you do if you can tell us?
PARTICIPANT 23: Housewife.
INTERVIEWER: You're a housewife. So, do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, from the husband because he works.
INTERVIEWER: So you have co-insurance. And do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, 2. I lost a pregnancy and now this one.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, you're pregnant.
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Congratulations!
PARTICIPANT 23: Thank you.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. What do you know about cervical cancer? what did you hear about it? and know that there are no right and wrong answers. It's what you know, what do you think.
PARTICIPANT 23: I don't know, well, since I did it at Prigoria, it came out positive.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is cervical cancer. Just in your opinion?
PARTICIPANT 23: It's something dangerous.
INTERVIEWER: And do you know what the cause, why it appears?
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever heard of the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever taken a test?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, did I do it twice.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, ok. And when was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 23: Last year.
INTERVIEWER: Except for the one from today.
PARTICIPANT 23: No. Last year, half a year before doing this at the town hall, the consultation.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And how the result came out?
PARTICIPANT 23: At that time, they said it was good.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Have you ever heard of HPV before? That was the first time you did the test at town hall.
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 23: Nothing.
INTERVIEWER: And you've never done an HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you think of the test experience? How did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 23: Good.
INTERVIEWER: So if you can tell us two or three words how it was, how.
PARTICIPANT 23: Well, it was good, good thing I did it. I didn't know what it was about.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when you did it?
PARTICIPANT 23: What do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: I mean, what information did you get? what were you told when you did the tests, for what it is? For what?
PARTICIPANT 23: For HPV, for cervical cancer. They told me not to be scared if it comes out, if something comes out.
INTERVIEWER: So who took/did the test (took the sampling)?
PARTICIPANT 23: There at Prigoria, the blonde lady.
INTERVIEWER: And do you generally prefer to be a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 23: When it's urgent, it doesn't matter.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommended the testing for you?
PARTICIPANT 23: The girls here at the town hall, they wrote.
INTERVIEWER: They wrote you on the list. And after you took the test, what other information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 23: Nothing. I went and did a check-up (control/consultation) at Mr. D's.
INTERVIEWER: Yes this, if you can tell me a little about the experience of the positive result. How was it after?
PARTICIPANT 23: Well, I haven't talked to anyone about us anyway. But I was scared and said who knows what it was, and I did a consult and he said it was fine. Well, the thing was not just about that, it was just that I had also lost the pregnancy a few months before.
INTERVIEWER: And how was I when you found out the result?
PARTICIPANT 23: Hard. I got scared. When to all they came out negative to me it came out positive.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did the doctor give you? So did you do a Babeș Papanicolau test at the doctor's after?
PARTICIPANT 23: No, a consultation. I did that abortion and I said maybe, to make sure I'm cleaned well. And he told me he was fine, he gave me to do some tests.
INTERVIEWER: OK and did he say anything else about the test?
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: Did he give you a test recommendation for Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And since then and until now you haven't done it?
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: So now for the mobile unit? And did he give you any other treatment?
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: So that was it. If you can tell us a few things about the positive side of testing, if it was a good thing?
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, very good. It was really indicated, I had to do this Papanicolau during pregnancy and I said that next week, but the girls came.
INTERVIEWER: And do you think there's a negative side to the testing?
PARTICIPANT 23: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think?
PARTICIPANT 23: No. It's very good.
INTERVIEWER: What if you think something could be improved? I mean, like to do something better?
PARTICIPANT 23: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: So overall experience, how did it seem?
PARTICIPANT 23: Very good.
INTERVIEWER: Even with a positive result.
PARTICIPANT 23: I found out, more.
INTERVIEWER: It's a lot, but it's better to know one thing.
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, it's better to know than.
INTERVIEWER: So that you can take care and be able to do regular checks.
PARTICIPANT 23: Yes, so you don't know what it's about you also become less interested.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Al right. Those were the questions, I hope they weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 23: No.
INTERVIEWER: I would have liked to talk more, to hear more from you. But, thank you very much.
PARTICIPANT 23: Thank you too.




Interview 24_EN

INTERVIEWER: We are recording this interview so that we can analyse the answers you give us and here we have prepared an information sheet, where you can find more information about what we do here and the confidentiality of the data. And here I will ask you to write the name, a signature and the date. Thank you very much! I am A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is doing the study, she represents our Norwegian partner here as such and to ask you some questions. You don't have to be scared, you know that there are no right answers or wrong answers, it's just what you know and your opinion, that's all. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 24: 51 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 24: Roșia de Amaradia.
INTERVIEWER: So stay here in Roșia de Amaradia. Can you tell me what is your work?
PARTICIPANT 24: I am not currently working (...)
INTERVIEWER: And before?
PARTICIPANT 24: I am a French language teacher but I stopped working ten years ago and now I am trying to re-specialize myself and I am a student at a state post-secondary health school, from the city.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And education? What school did you finish, education?
PARTICIPANT 24: Education?
INTERVIEWER: What education do you have, what school did you finish?
PARTICIPANT 24: Ah Faculty of Foreign Languages and Literatures from Bucharest at the University.
INTERVIEWER: Ah ok. Do you still have health insurance if you do not work?
PARTICIPANT 24: Well, yes, I have (...)
INTERVIEWER: Husband?
PARTICIPANT 24: No no. I am socially assisted in a category, for the time being.
INTERVIEWER: Ah right. And are you married?
PARTICIPANT 24: I'm not married, I've never been.
INTERVIEWER: OK and you have children?
PARTICIPANT 24: No. I had no children. I had no pregnancies. I didn't get pregnant. Well it wasn't like that. I have a partner for years but no.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 24: Well, even though I'm from post-secondary school because I didn't document myself like that. I know that if you have a cervix wound and you don't cauterize it, it can recur. Something else (...)
INTERVIEWER: And you know also (...)
PARTICIPANT 24: Which regenerates by giving birth to a child. There have been cases. Yes, but this is not 100% sure.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what the cause is?
PARTICIPANT 24: I don't know, could it also be due to the virus? I do not know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 24: I heard something.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know?
PARTICIPANT 24: But I don't know. I heard the term but I don't know what it is, nothing about it.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 24: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about it?
PARTICIPANT 24: To find out if there is something wrong, it is a test that detects if there is something wrong gynecologically speaking. Something else.
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did a test?
PARTICIPANT 24: Well, the first and last one I was once, I tell you I was 39 I think. I had no sexual intercourse and it turned out negative.
INTERVIEWER: So that was 12, 13.
PARTICIPANT 24: To be through 2012, 2013.
INTERVIEWER: So about 9, 10 years ago. And you haven't done it since?
PARTICIPANT 24: I don't know, I went to a gynaecological check-up at Dr. T.'s, but I don't remember if before or after Papanicolau. That's all. Such a gynaecological examination no (*she says that she didn’t do gynaecological examinations).
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test? Have you ever heard of HPV?
PARTICIPANT 24: I heard about last year. I had no idea I told you, I'm not interested and I panic more. Already after the result, I started (...)
INTERVIEWER: Before last year, last year you performed for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 24: First time yes.
INTERVIEWER: And before last year, did you ever hear about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 24: No, honestly not.
INTERVIEWER: How did the test experience seem to you? of tests, how was it?
PARTICIPANT 24: Unpleasant like that. Unpleasant. It seemed to me, that’s how it seemed to me. I'm honest. Expedient like that, everything was. I really seem to remember that there was someone else who was getting dressed while I was undressing there and they did everything very, very quickly. And so I think I didn't trust what was done to me then. The result may be correct. The test, God, well even if I understand that by immunizing the body I keep it under control.
INTERVIEWER: And how did the testing itself seem? I mean, the sampling, painful, uncomfortable, or whatever?
PARTICIPANT 24: I have a problem that if I'm not relaxed, I said no one is somehow, I don't know, I didn't understand how to be, it's not flexible but yes, when I touch it. But it is not such an unbearable pain and it has not been done as thoroughly as it is now. Okay now I felt much more. It was a little more on the surface from what I felt.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 24: Nothing. Before the test?
INTERVIEWER: Before the test.
PARTICIPANT 24: Nothing.
INTERVIEWER: After you did it?
PARTICIPANT 24: My neighbour told me, it was M.G., well I searched on the internet, my sister told me, but no details were given.
INTERVIEWER: And do you prefer the sampling to be done by a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 24: Woman, well. The sampling was done by a woman, I don't know if it was the lady. I don't know who it was becasue there were two people.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommend you the testing? I mean, here.
PARTICIPANT 24: From, it's my neighbour who works as a nurse here and she approached me and convinced me to come and take the test. Good thing it wasn't a bad thing, but I panicked a little after because I was sure it was nothing.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell me a little bit about this experience when you found out the positive test. How was it?
PARTICIPANT 24: I was not in such a good condition, of course I was upset to find out the result. I told you, I panicked. Because I don't see. I know that I have, well men are men, that I understand that it is taken, it contaminates us through sexual intercourse. Yes, no, I didn't believe it. Men go to other ladies anyway, it's not a problem for that to happen. And I know, I mean, maybe he didn't pay attention if it came from my partner. Maybe he wasn't very careful when he had other women in his life. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did you receive after finding out the test result? What did you do?
PARTICIPANT 24: I wanted to go check at another practice, another practice, but I didn't go because I didn't have insurance. At that time I was not well off financially and it is good that this opportunity also appeared. I don't know, I think it's been a year since I did it.
INTERVIEWER: And since then and until now have you did not do any tests?
PARTICIPANT 24: No.
INTERVIEWER: Neither Papanicolau nor?
PARTICIPANT 24: No no.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, so with, have you talked to anyone about this? about the result?
PARTICIPANT 24: With my sisters and my neighbour. Okay now we were talking and always like this. I didn't want people to know. Because I'm not even sure I told you, I doubt it. You know how it is in the village when people hear the whole situation is horribly interpreted.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Did you receive any other recommendations? What do you have to do? What needs to be done?
PARTICIPANT 24: Oh wait a bit, I did go with the result to the family doctor and she said not to panic that. Yes, yes, the doctor reassured me because I took the file for her to see it. Yes, I went.
INTERVIEWER: What, what other recommendations did she give you? something? 
PARTICIPANT 24: Well, she said to do something else, to repeat it, but she said not to panic that this is a normal thing. I forgot.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us about the positive side of the test. I mean, if it was a good thing or something? How do you see things, well?
PARTICIPANT 24: Well normally is a good thing because we, it's a prevention of. If we go to a routine check-up, we do a good thing. Not a bad thing. I think so. But it is, you have to be mentally prepared for the negative result as well. And when, that's why I was convinced that it wouldn't turn out that way because I know myself and I knew that my partner and I didn't think it would be, this result will be reached. Yes, but it's not a bad thing. Papanicolau, my sister told me, I have a sister married in Germany and she is, she already works in the system and the sister here also works in the system, in the sanitary system and she is not. My sister from Germany told me that it is not a bad thing to do Papanicolau at least once a year. And it doesn’t have to scare me, no matter what the outcome is, I have to do it. So I'm talking about Papanicolau, that previous test, HPV, I didn't know anything.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of the test? What do you think?
PARTICIPANT 24: The negative side? Well, if you're a sensitive, a sensitive person, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: Emotive.
PARTICIPANT 24: Emotive. You creak down (break down). And yes, I know that diseases in general are triggered by this serious situation. Well, I am exaggerating, that you’re not eating. Yes, when you are in a bad mood, you don't feel like eating, you don't feel like anything, you don't feel like getting in touch with anyone, you're afraid. Okay, I was afraid to tell my partner, I was afraid. I wanted to tell him but I didn't tell him.
INTERVIEWER: He still doesn't know?
PARTICIPANT 24: Well, he doesn't know because if I told him he would say he wasn't. So no. It's all up to me. And anyway I do immunization cures (treatments) anyway, for immunization. And I think that's the downside, whether you're a little emotional or something. But I'm fine, I consider myself a strong person because I've been through a lot of emotional and ugly states, yes. I lost my mother for the first time. My mother had ovarian cancer, which is why my sister in Germany is more careful. We lost our brother in 2008 and I told you I'm already. But the momentary impact upsets you, no matter how mentally strong you are.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved? I have no idea, about the system. What could be improved? How do you see things, what?
PARTICIPANT 24: Ah, I'm ah, yes I know that sexology classes are also held at school. But I think they exaggerated, I think that they are done earlier than they should or maybe it is good. But anyway, even if there would be these courses, these courses with a touch of prevention, I don't know if we all managed to avoid, to contact.
INTERVIEWER: And how did this seem to you, all this time from finding the result until now, I mean, the experience you had during all this time?
PARTICIPANT 24: I just became aware that, but nothing else, so it wasn’t anything worse. I was just aware of the outcome. I knew the result. I told you I calmed down after talking to the doctor that it wasn't a problem and my sister said. Well, I didn't feel any changes with my body (...)
INTERVIEWER: So overall, overall as an experience?
PARTICIPANT 24: As an experience, it's the same as before, it’s not. It is, I don't know if it's better that I found out or maybe it is. But I told you with immunization, I try to do the immunization repeatedly in spring and in the autumn I do for three months and maybe I have, if there's something kept under control, whatever it is, an ugly thing that happens to my body.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are certain obstacles when it comes to accessing medical services? To go to the doctor? Are there any obstacles?
PARTICIPANT 24: If I go with this file or?
INTERVIEWER: No, I say if there are obstacles such as lack of time, lack of money (...)
PARTICIPANT 24: Lack of money is first and foremost.
INTERVIEWER: I don't know the distance, I don't know what example if you have a gynaecologist here in the village?
PARTICIPANT 24: We don't have it, we only have it in Târgu-Jiu or Cărbunești, but during this period I realize that no one dares to go to hospitals. Until this pandemic ends, this madness. It's true, it's preferable to go to the family doctor and that's it. We limit ourselves there or. But it's like, but now it seemed sterilized, disinfected. Now I've seen that everything has been disinfected, so I really liked it this time. I saw that, I trusted it.
INTERVIEWER: So as a final thought the whole experience, so in the end if you want to tell us something else?
PARTICIPANT 24: I don't know what to say.
INTERVIEWER: If you want to tell us something more.
PARTICIPANT 24: Yes, I told you about my mother, and I'm kind of glad I came in. I had this opportunity to do the test and the previous one also for free through a project and it's good that I did it and that, because I have a case in the family. I told you about my mother who had ovarian cancer and that's why we have to have the Papanicolau test at least once a year.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! That's about it.



Interview 25_ EN
 
INTERVIEWER: We are recording this interview so that we can analyse the topic of the answers. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda, on behalf of our Norwegian partner in the project. And here I will give you an information sheet that you can take home, that's up to you. If you have any questions in the future, you can find us, here is my phone number, email address. And here it is related to the study we do and your participation and know that all data is confidential and will not be used anywhere. And then, here I will ask you to give me a name, date and signature. So at the beginning I will ask you to tell me a few things about you. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 25: 26 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! (long live) Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 25: In Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu-Jiu. And what studies do you have?
PARTICIPANT 25: Postgraduate.
INTERVIEWER: Aha. What?
PARTICIPANT 25: Two masters.
INTERVIEWER: Congratulations.
PARTICIPANT 25: Thank you. And now another bachelor. 
INTERVIEWER: And profession?
PARTICIPANT 25: Teacher.
INTERVIEWER: I understand, great. So therefore, you will also have medical insurance.
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And family doctor, where?
PARTICIPANT 25: Here in Turceni, because I stayed here until a year ago.
INTERVIEWER: In Turceni. Husband? Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children too?
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. What age?
PARTICIPANT 25: Two months.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, little one. Normal birth, natural?
PARTICIPANT 25: Through c-section.
INTERVIEWER: Alright. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 25: My mother had and had surgery in Cluj. Not many things, honestly. Just what I did know from her?
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what the cause is, for example?
PARTICIPANT 25: I don't know the cause, they didn’t tell her concretely either why it appeared.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 25: I heard yes, but I said yes, yes, no, but I heard well, for example, audio screening. I don't know now there are probably several types.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 25: I've been doing this since I was 19, I've been doing it each year.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about him, what, why?
PARTICIPANT 25: I know that various infections can appear and this will detect them (the test).
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 25: A year ago before I got pregnant.
INTERVIEWER: And before that?
PARTICIPANT 25: I did it every year.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, you did it periodically around each year.
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 25: I didn't even know about this one until I found out through the campaign.
INTERVIEWER: And have you heard of HPV as an infection?
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes, I heard, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. So what do you know about the test?
PARTICIPANT 25: I honestly don't know many things.
INTERVIEWER: However, there are no right or wrong answers here. Just you know, what you think, your opinion. Do you know what it's for?
PARTICIPANT 25: I know that it is also related to the cervix infections but I did not understand much from the result, I know that there may be more strains. I also said that I want to do more investigations now after I gave birth.
INTERVIEWER: And when you do the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 25: Before I became pregnant. I don't know exactly. I do not remember.
INTERVIEWER: And before that, have you ever done it or was it the first time?
PARTICIPANT 25: No, that was the first time.
INTERVIEWER: Then was the first time. And how did it seem, the test experience? The testing, how did it seem? (*comment –  the verb used is translated as ‘seem’, as an opinion)
PARTICIPANT 25: What exactly do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: Simply the testing, how did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 25: It's very simple to be honest.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 25: I only received the result and that's it. And with the result I went to the gynaecologist here.
INTERVIEWER: And the result, how was the result?
PARTICIPANT 25: Positive.
INTERVIEWER: Positive. If you can tell us a few words about the experience of the result? How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 25: I was shocked. I didn't know much. I knew my mother had the same. I've been scared ever since, but the gynaecologist reassured me, he said that I have to do regular tests and that's it. He didn't tell me if there was a treatment or not. He told me to be careful after 35 years (after she will be 35).
INTERVIEWER: And the gynaecologist she goes to is a woman, is he a man?
PARTICIPANT 25: Man.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommend you the testing for the first time? Was it then when it was the campaign?
PARTICIPANT 25: Well, I talked to C. We are relatives.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And what other information did you receive after the result? What else did the doctor tell you?
PARTICIPANT 25: Nothing more.
INTERVIEWER: So that was it generally.
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes. But I told you, I want to go to another doctor, C. had even told me about a doctor in Craiova to detect exactly the strains I have. I do not know very well. I was waiting to give birth and I said to stay (wait) for a while.
INTERVIEWER: Aha. And what about the experience of the result like when you found out?
PARTICIPANT 25: The first time I was scared, I told you, but the doctor reassured me. He gave me no cause for concern.
INTERVIEWER: Did you have any treatment after the result?
PARTICIPANT 25: No, he didn't give me anything. But I understood that there was something about that and I said to go elsewhere to hear another opinion.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side?
PARTICIPANT 25: The fact that I found out. Anyway.
INTERVIEWER: You think it's a good thing you know.
PARTICIPANT 25: Yes, yes yes. And I kind of found out about the test. I really didn't know it was, that it existed. I didn't even know about the vaccine and now it's coming. I said I was going to get vaccinated. C. even told me that there will be a vaccination campaign.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of the testing. If you think there is a negative one.
PARTICIPANT 25: I don't think there is a negative side.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 25: Regarding the explanations of the test, I mean the result, I did not receive any interpretation of it so to speak.
INTERVIEWER: Have you been to the gynaecologist in Târgu-Jiu?
PARTICIPANT 25: No, I was here.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the obstacles that women or you know or have not taken a test before or if there are obstacles to not doing a test?
PARTICIPANT 25: I didn't know about the test but now that I know I will do it.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think it could be a lack of time, for example, or?
PARTICIPANT 25: I would make time. I, myself, I would make time.
INTERVIEWER: Or financial problems for example or?
PARTICIPANT 25: This is not the case for me.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, all right. And how would you describe in total all the experience you had?
PARTICIPANT 25: I say it's a good thing and everyone should be tested and campaigns like this should be done because a lot of people think it's in the situation I was in, and they don't know a lot of details.
INTERVIEWER: Ok. Okay, thank you very much.
PARTICIPANT 25: With pleasure.
INTERVIEWER: That was about it, I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 25: No, not at all.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much and we wish you good health!
PARTICIPANT 25: Thank you, too.



Interview 26_EN

INTERVIEWER: We record this interview so that we can then analyse the data and I will give you an information sheet that you take home with you about this study and what we do and know that all data is confidential. Here I will ask you to add your name, date and signature. The date is 19th. Thank you very much! My name is A. D. Mrs. Linda is our partner from Norway. And know that I'm going to ask you a few questions about the test experience, and I'd like to ask you a few things about you at the beginning. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 26: 43.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 26: Turceni.
INTERVIEWER: Ah, you're from here from Turceni.
PARTICIPANT 26: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. Can you tell me if you work?
PARTICIPANT 26: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what if you can tell me?
PARTICIPANT 26: At a furniture store.
INTERVIEWER: And by profession, before?
PARTICIPANT 26: I used to work in a store like this as a salesperson. I'm at the furniture store now.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 26: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 26: I only have one little girl.
INTERVIEWER: Long live! So. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 26: Honestly I don't know much.
INTERVIEWER: Just what do you know, here is no wrong or correct answer, it’s only what you know, just that. 
PARTICIPANT 26: I have no idea. So I really don't know much. My mother was not an open person to talk to me as I talk to my little girl who asks questions, she saw contraceptive methods on a advertising panel but she did not understand, so I explained to her. What I know I explain to her what I don't know we are searching for. Although no, my mother didn't talk to me. The first time when I was 14, when my period came, I told my mother something had happened. I did not do anything. Ah, don't worry, it came. I used cotton wool, not tampons and that's it.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the cause or the cause? or?
PARTICIPANT 26: Like any other disease, I don't know. However, it is good to do tests, it is good to do a check. It's good to have a sex education, a little developed so you know. I never had a gynaecological check-up until I was 26 when I was pregnant. I was not. I was seven months pregnant. Sex life, what to talk about and who to talk to. I do not know. The first gynaecological check-up was painful, awful. Then at two weeks I had problems I gave birth by c-section and I had a check-up after ten years that I had some kidney problems and I had to do all sorts of investigations. Now I was saying that I was going to the gynaecological check-up, I was immediately stained and in the end I took my heart in my teeth (got courage) and said I was 36 years old, I was making a fool of myself so I have to do it. Now it's okay, I mean, the moment I did this HPV test for me was something I had to do, but I don't know what it means. I did it and I received a positive result, I said OK, normal. After I realized, I was a little shocked, I went and did a Papanicolau right away. Then I understood that a colposcopy would be ok, I did it.
INTERVIEWER: OK. What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 26: Nothing. I mean, what I read on my own.
INTERVIEWER: OK. When was the last time you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 26: Ah, last September.
INTERVIEWER: In September last year. And until September last year?
PARTICIPANT 26: Never.
INTERVIEWER: You never did it.
PARTICIPANT 26: Not. I mean, this was my mentality as a woman, I mean, ah, I need the Papanicolau test. I started menopause because of the kidney treatment. I went for a check-up, they recommended me Dopaston. It didn't come. Then he gave me contraceptives. I was very sick but I kept taking them after three days it came (menstruation). I didn't take them the next month. I had about two or three days, and then I tried to take them again. However, I had a terrible sting here, I didn't take them anymore and I stayed here.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV? About the HPV infection, what did you hear? What do you know?  
PARTICIPANT 26: The only, that is, the only question when I was in Craiova to do the Papanicolau and colposcopy. I asked how can you get HPV? The only response was through sexual intercourse. That's all. Now I was reading more and I understood that you can get it also from a toilet and more stuff.
INTERVIEWER: When did you do the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 26: Last year in? When was the campaign.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test before, or was it your first time?
PARTICIPANT 26: Never. That was the first time.
INTERVIEWER: And how did it seem the experience of the test, the testing and even the Papanicolau? How does it seem?
PARTICIPANT 26: I, too, when my little girl is almost 18, I discussed a lot of things with her. I agree to give her the vaccine when she turns 18. Very openly, I told her and when you start your sexual life, tell me, let's talk very openly, you don't have to be afraid, afraid that I'll go to the doctor, I have to stay like this (she talks about the gynaecological exam and the position), all women have a problem with staying (the position). That's it, but it's something that shouldn't be left out. I mean, I thank God I didn't have anything serious. I wouldn't be afraid, I said after all, that's it. Yes. Yes, but I don’t want my child to be like me because, I don’t know, that was the parents’ mentality, mother was a bit withdrawn, a bit more closed but I will not do the same with my child.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 26: A simple routine check-ul (exam), that's all.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you prefer female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 26: I don't have a problem. So I really don't have a problem because we have a man here in Turceni. I thought it was okay, really ok. I don't have a problem with being a man, a woman, in the end it's my health and it doesn't matter.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 26: The HPV?
INTERVIEWER: Aha.
PARTICIPANT 26: My boss as she working in the hospital, that it's a campaign. The tests are many, free. It wasn't a problem but I didn't know what it was and I asked her about, she told me it's a test for cervical cancer. And I said, yes, no problem. I saw how it was done, I did it.
INTERVIEWER: How did the result experience seem to you? How did you get the result? How was the first result?
PARTICIPANT 26: The first time when they called me and said it was positive, I said it was ok, perfect, because I know I don't (I don’t understand what she is saying here), I'm against it. I don't have a sex life wow. I don't have any symptoms, I don't feel the need and I repeated that twice and I said yes, you don't understand because I understood, it's ok. Of course, it's good. After they told me, I said wait a minute. In the first phase, he told me not to be scared when it's 2.52, I said OK, no problem. To go further. And then in a few days I made an appointment, I did the Papanicolaou test in the first phase, with the substance because it's better. I stayed for a while, I talked to some girls, I said colposcopy is the best. I did it. The doctor told me she didn't see anything wow, and at six months she told me to repeat the HPV one more time. I never repeated It honestly. But I said that I would do it after a year and in one year, at one year I said.
INTERVIEWER: And what other recommendations did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 26: From Craiova after Papanicolau I did not receive any recommendation because I was sampled and then I took my result myself, I did not have anyone to talk to. I decided to do the colposcopy, then I had a discussion with the doctor and she told me to rest assured that everything is ok. She gave me a treatment for immunity.
INTERVIEWER: And what other treatments did she recommend or this is what she recommend?
PARTICIPANT 26: Isoprinozilene so for immunity and seven days cervucid and occasionally she told me twice a week not to miss from the refrigerator viviflor. Especially since I'm at menopause. 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think was the positive side of the test?
PARTICIPANT 26: The positive side? I don't know how to answer the positive side? To thank to C. (* staff) first of all for giving me the chance to find out about the HPV test and my mentality of realizing that this is not to be played with. 
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 26: The negative side is that we don't have enough information. We don't know how to value ourselves and we don't know how to do a routine check-up. Because we are negligent (slack). I would think that if an hour like this was introduced at school, it would be very good for all girls and boys, because boys also have problems. Because there are N (many) girls at the age of 12 that start a sexual life and their parents don't know, their mother is losing for not knowing nothing. I find it outrageous.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 26: The discussion. Parents with children. And encouraging children not to be afraid of the doctor, not to be afraid of such things.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns about the result?
PARTICIPANT 26: No. Not. And I told you even if it was very serious. This is. I would have assumed that I had made the mistake of not going to a check-up beforehand to prevent or maybe say I was stage 1 and if I was stage 1 I would have an escape. If you get to stage 4, I assume it. Brother, I didn’t go. No. But with my child I told myself no. 
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are barriers or obstacles in accessing these preventive health services?
PARTICIPANT 26: I don't think so.
INTERVIEWER: Time related.
PARTICIPANT 26: No.
INTERVIEWER: Money.
PARTICIPANT 26: No.
INTERVIEWER: Related to the home (distance), for example.
PARTICIPANT 26: No. Let's talk about it now. I don't have the money to go to a check-up, but I have five or six children and I have nothing to offer them. For that moment of pleasure, 10, 15 minutes, 5 minutes as long as it takes, you make children foolishly. You can take risks every month you go and work during the day and take contraceptives because condoms, they are expensive. This is how I consider. 
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us all this in the end, all, so all the total experience how did it seemed to you? With the result, with the test, with everything, a final thought.
PARTICIPANT 26: A final thought. Everything seemed ok to me. I do not know what to say. I wish all women respect themselves. Make check-ups. I don't know what to say to you. I mean, I wish we were very, a little more advanced, we're a little behind. I am. I told you I considered myself, and I still consider myself a little backward, about this stuff. But I would not want my daughter to reach the age of 26 to have a child and to have no exam. I do tests once a year (for the daughter) when she lacks something we complete it. I had an experience, we operated her last year, I cut her labia because she had a problem and they became ugly. And I said you're old and you should, she had an experience, I hope she didn't get traumatized because it was a very cold and very cruel doctor. I told her that this is going to pass. You will end up having a sex life, you will have a relationship, you will have a family, you will have children. I don't want her to go through what I went through.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 26: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: Thanks again for agreeing to speak with us!


Interview 27_ EN

INTERVIEWER: So we're going to record this discussion so we can analyse the answers later. I am A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda and she is our partner from Norway. And I'll give you an information sheet first. This will stay with you and you will be able to look it up again and if you have any questions you can find us at this phone number, this is my number. These remain with you. I can ask for your name, date and signature. And I'm going to ask you a few things. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 27: 50.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And the domicile?
PARTICIPANT 27: Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Ah you’re living in Târgu Jiu. If you could tell me what education you have, what school did you do?
PARTICIPANT 27: Academy of Economic Studies from Bucharest.
INTERVIEWER: And what is your profession (*what do you do)?
PARTICIPANT 27: Economist.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes.
 INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 27: One.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And I suspect you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 27: I know enough. I know it affects a lot of women to a greater or lesser extent. It can be aggravated but at the same time it can be treated if it is detected in time, it is very good.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. Somehow it gives all sorts of some due to a sex life so to speak, well if. Caused by various factors. But in general I noticed that women, for example, who do not have a sex life, no, are less affected. So it's still a brought infection in the body, I don't know how to say.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 27: Well, yes, these tests that are done and that show very well what the infection is, at what stage.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 27: It's done on anything, in all the cities, it's not a problem, I've done it many times. At least we do. My colleagues about once a year, well every two years.
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you performed?
PARTICIPANT 27: I think, however, a year ago, two. I lost a little with the pandemic.
INTERVIEWER: And before that periodically?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes, yes, yes. I know it needs to be tested quite often.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what it's for?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. The same, for detecting certain types of cancer, of. I know they are in stages, some show more show others show less.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV? About HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 27: Well, only what I’ve heard on TV. That it affects, that we are all carriers and that it develops to a greater or lesser extent in everyone.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the test?
PARTICIPANT 27: That it is done but not in all, not so simple. Not in all practices.
INTERVIEWER: Did you ever do it?
PARTICIPANT 27: I did everything but not HPV.
INTERVIEWER: Last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 27: December 2020.
INTERVIEWER: Then with the campaign?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes, with the campaign and when they detected some strains.
INTERVIEWER: And before that did you ever do it?
PARTICIPANT 27: No, I only did Babeș Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: I mean before you did it you’ve heard about it? 
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes, of course. There are so many campaigns on TV.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us a little bit about the test experience? How was it?
PARTICIPANT 27: Pretty, I didn't expect the result. Test experience of the test, I did not expect the result. I was scared, I started reading and slowly we calmed down so that you have to see what you do next. That there aren't some strains such as, but it is not excluded that they wouldn’t involve. Bu with hope, ahead.
INTERVIEWER: What kind of information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 27: Well, not the first time I didn't have from whom, it was the same through A. and I left, I went to a doctor from here who told me that it wouldn't be something so serious.
INTERVIEWER: So and after you got the result, what information did you get?
PARTICIPANT 27: As I said, that it is not, that you do a treatment because it is not something so serious. And of course, to come back to the test again.
INTERVIEWER: Did you go to the gynaecologist immediately after finding out the result?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes, yes, yes. After that, I really had to go around now, in the summer, in the fall, that is, I just had in mind to go. And you came just in time.
INTERVIEWER: And did he give you any treatment? Have you had any treatment?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. What I had there, some capsules. I did the treatment. That's all.
INTERVIEWER: What other recommendations did he give you?
PARTICIPANT 27: That's all. What I still continuously, well I am also at menopause. I'm swollen under breasts.
INTERVIEWER: And so all the experience of the positive result, how? How did you perceive it?
PARTICIPANT 27: Very bad at first.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a little bit?
PARTICIPANT 27: I don't know, I don't know what I could tell you. I was scared, I went to the doctor, who reassured me.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us what the positive side of the test was?
PARTICIPANT 27: Of course there is a positive side because you are, you are investigating yourself, you see what it is about, you have treatment and you have a chance to continue and be healthy.
INTERVIEWER: And what's the negative side?
PARTICIPANT 27: Well, what can I say that you find out and you get scared and you don't live as if oh leave me, I don’t have anything. There are some symptoms, we still have them, we still feel something but we give them on, on the fatigue, on the age, on I know what.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved? What could we do better? what could be done better?
PARTICIPANT 27: Well, I don't know what to tell you because I don't know, I find it quite difficult. Of course, it is good that a large part of the population is being tested, that the vaccine is being given to girls. Now I don't know, it depends on how much you can, otherwise it’s easy to just say to come (*she means the campaigns to come/the services).
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are barriers for women that are not tested?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. It's about education, of many. Yes, I don't think so. It's something you need to be interested in.
INTERVIEWER: Would that be the case for you?
PARTICIPANT 27: No.
INTERVIEWER: Lack of time, I don't know.
PARTICIPANT 27: That's it. I mean, if I told you, I had to go to the doctor at six months and I had to go to six months, and you actually go to 10. You know what it's like. The time is passing and you wake up now as I’ve been 3 months ago and in fact there are, yes the lack of time. Leave it, I will go, just after the holidays, just after this and.
INTERVIEWER: Maybe I know, maybe financial problems or money?
PARTICIPANT 27: Ah I think so. For example, with this problem, I might not have it and yet sometimes I don't seem to know, I keep thinking I don't know what those who don't have money do. Yes yes, and even I am saying next month because now I don’t know what.  Not really, I shouldn't. Not only do I work, but my husband has some possibilities, and yet I can't believe what are people doing with 8 million (800 RON) or 15 (1500 RON) a month. I don't know. Yes, that's a major problem.
INTERVIEWER: And the accessibility of the services possibly? Whether you choose to go private or go to the hospital or?
PARTICIPANT 27: Yes. I do not know what to say. Most of us go to private, especially when there is a problem, but also at the hospital, but you wait, wait a long time. And that, of course.
INTERVIEWER: So, one final thought, can you tell us what you thought of the whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 27: So, that's a very good thing you're doing. Of course.
INTERVIEWER: And your overall experience?
PARTICIPANT 27: Very good because I'm on the principle that you need to know what's wrong with you. That I told you we are waiting and in general I don't know we have a resistance lets me take an algocamin (painkiller) I don't know what it doesn’t pass, let me I don’t have anything. It's not like that, ah let it that. It's very good what you're doing.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! That was it. I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.




Interview 28_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record these discussions so we can analyse the answers here as well and give you a new fact sheet that you don't have to read anything about it right now. You take this with you home and if you have any questions about what we do you can find us at the phone numbers here on the back or at the email address. That remains with you, and here I am asking you to write your name, date, and signature of the gentleman. Thanks. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is our Norwegian partner here and I will ask you some questions about you at the beginning. Can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 28: 51.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 28: I live in Târgu Jiu here.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu Jiu. If you can tell me what, what do you do for a living?
PARTICIPANT 28: I am an inspector at the health insurance authority.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell me what school you did?
PARTICIPANT 28: I did the ASE (Academy of Economic Studies). So I'm an economist.
INTERVIEWER: I suspect you have health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 28: No. only if (...)
INTERVIEWER: If you work?
PARTICIPANT 28: I mean, yes, I'm insured by law. Yes yes yes yes yes yes and I also have an optional insurance through ING.
INTERVIEWER: OK.
PARTICIPANT 28: But I could not do a life one (insurance) because I have a remission disease in dermatomyositis, collagen disease and they did not agree. They insured me just in case of an accident and these kind of stuff.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes. Ș. here in the city.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 28: I don't. I have an adopted boy because it was explained to me that following the cytostatics and I also had TB peritonitis. I remained infertile (*this last word is spoken with a very very low voice. Could see the impact on her).
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer? (*this is what I am talking about with the order of the questions as it seems that this question comes very abruptly without maybe creating a proper atmosphere beforehand).
PARTICIPANT 28: I don't want to know too much. I know he's very villain (evil, horrible etc). I even had a colleague who died in Cluj. Something like that. I know it's largely due to our negligence that we don't go to do Papanicolau in time and I know it's aggressive.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about a screening? have you heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 28: Ah. Yeah but I don’t know a lot about it.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 28: That's what I do. In principle, I do it once a year. I was in Cluj and two years ago I did consultations and a test.
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 28: I did it here two years ago, before the pandemic started. So the pandemic started two years ago. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 28: Ah that virus. I don't know much. I know that contact can be, unprotected contact. Not.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes, yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: When was it?
PARTICIPANT 28: Well, at the same time two years ago in Cluj.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever done that before?
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes, yes yes. In Craiova and here in the city. Yeah in general I tried annually. 
INTERVIEWER: So you knew about the test?
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 28: That I'm OK. It was never very good but it didn't cause any problems. So they always had inflammations, I always had. I entered menopause very early on. So somewhere around the age of 42. There was a five-year pre-menopause that blow me. So all that means side effects I think to me (*doesn’t finish the sentence but means that she had them). With depression, with joint pain, with these irritating conditions, with. I don't even know what, insomnia and all that. I tried to take all sorts of hormonal medications under the doctor's direction, as they are called. Olgameters I know I was given about 5 months and at one point my liver went crazy and I could not tolerate. The cycle seemed to be coming back, but I told you, after five years at 47, I didn't have a cycle at all. And well, cysts, polycystic ovaries, fibroids, fibroids. I always had these problems and child and. And when I had a cycle, they were very painful. So even now, lately, I've been getting urinary tract infections very often since I started menopause. So even now I think so, so even now I am sure I have it because I have some pain I can't take it anymore and I take Uractiv. But I started getting urinary tract infections every month. I read that it may be due to this menopause.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 28: Papanicolau test? To do it as usual because it's not really ok but it doesn't cause problems.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommended testing?
PARTICIPANT 28: Testing.
INTERVIEWER: And HPV testing.
PARTICIPANT 28: Myself. I wanted to go and do it.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 28: No, I didn't take it into account, but lately I thought it would be preferable women because they understand the phenomenon better with menopause and. But I went to the gynaecologist and men too, I didn't take it into account, but I would still prefer women.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us a little bit about the HPV result? What information did you receive after the HPV result? How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 28: I told you. I guess, I don't think I remember exactly. Overall it's ok. I received some ovules as indications and very much attention to, what can I say, environmental factors, intimate hygiene and indication to return at least annually to check up. To do this test. Not.
INTERVIEWER: Have you received any other treatment after the result?
PARTICIPANT 28: No. Lately I've been going to urology because I told you, these urinary tract infections. And at the last gynaecological check-up, no, the last urological check-up, the doctor recommended me to go to the gynaecologist again because this, this fibromatous uterus, he really didn’t like the way it looks. Although it was explained to me that these fibroid are outside the uterine wall, they are not inside, but it would be good to go back to the gynaecologist.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us about the positive side of the test. What is the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 28: The fact that I have no more fears that something will happen. So I have, when you have a discharge, let's say, that you have some pain, you think and go on the internet and read and you see yourself as a potential victim of cancer. When you do it and you are told it's ok it's not very good but it's good (good enough). You become more positive, I can go on, so to say. Because this fear of cancer is hovering over everyone. I, who did cytostatics when I had collagenases know what it means. To go through all this pain caused by.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the negative side (downside) of testing?
PARTICIPANT 28: Negative side. It affects me mentally if you have a negative result but it's okay to take this test. You can prevent or be an early stage that can help you get over the disease. But it is this reluctance towards, the result, the doctor, because not all doctors are OK. I'm not. There are some who are actually bored, do not pay attention, do not talk, no, you are like a. How to say, they have probably capped and probably are not patience still with all patients. And in Cluj, I don't know the name now. But he said, there were more there, Girls, you're okay. It not worth it to come up to here. Here there are very serios cases. But we, in order to take precautions and ask a higher doctor, to ask for an opinion. Unfortunately, I was not able to get to Cluj because this pandemic occurred.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 28: From a medical point of view or from a point of view?
INTERVIEWER: From all points of view.
PARTICIPANT 28: I think that this action you are doing is welcomed and should be done as often as possible and in the villages where we are, where people have no information and no. For example, last year I did this in Jupânești, where you were on Monday, because I was on vacation. I'm going there to the countryside. So the people in the countryside are reluctant to undress for the doctor. I don't know, they really don't know anything about this Papanicolau and doing actions more often in the urban environment, I think it would help women a lot. In the rural areas sorry.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns about this test result?
PARTICIPANT 28: Somewhat. You know, I've been through so many diseases and it's better to prevent. No, that’s it, in the end I think that doing it annually or about every year, can’t be God forbid something, is not so serious.
INTERVIEWER: Can you finally describe to us the total experience you had? Such a final thought of the experience. How did it seem to you, the overall experience?
PARTICIPANT 28: Over the years?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, the experience with HPV in recent years, with a positive result, how did it seem overall?
PARTICIPANT 28: Overall it was good for me, for my mental health it was good that I managed to get and get to a bigger centre where the cases are as they are. And I was in that OK category. It helped me, it helped me a lot mentally and I know that at least in this respect it is not something. There are minor issues that are kept under control. Because I also have my breast, kept under control again, my breast hurts a lot too. And it was explained to me that it is also hormonal that I entered earlier, that I did not have, I did not give birth. There are some issues, but I'm trying to keep them under control. Now that I can't get as far as I want to do all those investigations, but in principle I'm careful. I was scared of that collagenase and I was scared by this covid I went through and I try to go and investigate. I went to Bucharest for breast. Likewise, it must be kept under observation.
INTERVIEWER: You think there are obstacles that women don't go for. Or you wouldn't go to the doctor, I mean I don't know, lack of time, money.
PARTICIPANT 28: Yes, yes. First of all, it is the lack of time because we work a lot, the lack of time and a little convenience as you get older and convenience comes into play. And this contact with the environment, I told you, not everyone is in a good mood. First of all, through this patient-doctor relationship must rely on dialogue. No, he came in, he saw you, he came out, he wrote. If you don't feel the doctor close to your soul you are inhibited and you can't reveal yourself, you can't say everything you feel, you can't even describe the problems you have. Here, a lot of dialogue. I know that even doctors don't have time because there are so many patients. If all the dialogues were as they are now, I think that women and men would go to the doctor more. Some are also scared of the result. There are people who are scared. They don't, so they don't have any experience. I have the experience of the disease, so to speak, serious diseases and peritonitis TB and that collagenase that brought me to the ground and at the age of 20 made me a from human un-huma, and the depression, and Corvid that I went through last year. I accept things differently as opposed to a man who was not and suddenly wakes up with a result. But congratulations on what you are doing, these campaigns are great for I told you, especially for the rural areas.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much and thank you for agreeing to talk to us!
PARTICIPANT 28: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: Much health!



Interview 29_EN

INTERVIEWER: Please note that this interview is recorded so that we can then analyse the answers you have given us and I will give you an information sheet which you can keep and here is my phone number and address and if it is something you can always contact us. These remain with you and I will also ask you to give me a signature here. Here under the name, date and signature. Thanks! My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda our partner from Norway. I will ask you a few questions, there are no right or wrong answers. It's just your opinion and what you know. And can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 29: 53.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 29: Buriteni, Gorj county.
INTERVIEWER: So you came here to Rovinari from a distance.
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes Yes. Well, the HPV came out, it didn't come out well, and a girl called me, I don't know, and she told me if I wanted to.
INTERVIEWER: What do you work?
PARTICIPANT 29: I am a security guard, security. 
INTERVIEWER: So does that mean you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have it there?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes, in Vâlteni in our village.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: So, children?
PARTICIPANT 29: I have two older girls, they are also married.
INTERVIEWER: Great. What do you know about cervical cancer? What did you hear?
PARTICIPANT 29: I didn't inform myself, I wasn't interested, I wasn't so. Now that my HPV has come out like this, I was scared and I came and did the tests at the doctor's. And she said she took a biopsy or I don't know what she took and he said it worked out well and then I didn't much, I didn't do that much. So I can't say I came regularly. There was no time, so it's not, no. 
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause of cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 29: I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 29: It must be done every year, I know that, but (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what is it for?
PARTICIPANT 29: The same gynaecological to see if it's okay or not, for the uterus or something. I really do not know. But I know if I get 2 it's not good but if I get 1 it's fine. And this year I got two.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 29: This I did half a year ago. I did HPV, it can out bad, the doctor sent me, this one in Târgu Jiu it came out bad. I took treatment, the doctor gave me treatment here for three months, and ovules and me and my husband, and pills. After that I did the biopsy and she said it went well. And to repeat, now I have to take the test in November, I will come to do it if my cycle (menstruation) has come, I can't come anymore. Yesterday it came, yesterday morning (...)
INTERVIEWER: Before when was the last time you took the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 29: Before I used to do in the same two years ago. What happened was that my sister-in-law was, we both went to Târgu Jiu and we did it. It worked out well for me. And hers got worse. But I didn't normally know that I could come with someone, because my sister is from here from Rovinari. The sister-in-law, it came out bad about four years ago, she got 3 to 4 or so, and they scared her from Târgu Jiu that she was very bad and that he was getting cancer and we ran to Bucharest. And there I repeated it so two or three years ago I repeated it and it turned out just the same, good. We did this HPV too anyway and it cost us a lot, she got treatment and it came back. As far as we know, he had recovered, she didn't have any more, but she doesn't have a job, she doesn't leave home much. So I have to do somehow to take her also, but I didn't even ask if I could come with someone, accompanied, and I would have taken her with me.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test? Do you know what the HPV infection is?
PARTICIPANT 29: No. I know they called me home if I could come and do this thing because I wanted to do it. And I came just like that, called.
INTERVIEWER: And when did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 29: In winter if not, spring but I don't know the exact date. But anyway, I did the treatment for about three months, after which I came for a check-up, I was hospitalized so kind of in the spring. About that time, January, February.
INTERVIEWER: And before January, February, did you ever do the HPV?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes then in Bucharest. And it turned out well. So almost 3 years ago and then it turned out well. When I was with my sister-in-law, because we were all scared and I said if I still got to Bucharest I would do it myself, eh money nah.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think of the test experience? The sampling? How does it seem?
PARTICIPANT 29: We think we should do it normally more often. But as we are with the money, luckly with you as you would come even more, you do it like that (*she means getting tested for free). The HPV cost us a lot in Bucharest, we can't afford to do it again, but I've always done this on Papanicolau. For years I did one a year and it came out well until last year and last year in the spring it came out 2 to 3 or so and then I got a little bit scared. Well and maybe the age, but I haven't entered menopause so I'm still in the cycle (menstruation), anyway.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 29: The doctor told me that it was not good and to do treatment, she gave me treatment for three months. My husband and I took some pills and for 14 days and in the vagina the same izopril, to insert ovules for 30 days. And I did it for 3 months in a row and then I came to her. I came in the fourth month. She told me that it was fine then, in August. And she told me in November to come for the Papanicolau test, and that she will do a colposcopy, something else that needs to be done.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist if needed?
PARTICIPANT 29: I went to women more. Men in their youth it was like Mr. M. in our place in Târgu Jiu. But I did a curettage, I remember he was on his turn (hospital schedule/shift) but in general not. 
INTERVIEWER: And who first recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 29: The HPV? So as I told you, at that time 3 years ago, I went to Bucharest and to the practice, but I don't know which private practice we went to anyway. I read on the internet and I didn't know where to go of fear for my sister-in-law and if they told her from there at the practice that she had to do these tests to see if they were okay, then I made sure that I'm fine too if I still managed to get there with her. But I don't know to tell you the practice, a doctor also told me that if I want to do it to do it, for my peace of mind and to know that I am well and that's what I'm saying.
INTERVIEWER: And how was the experience of the result? How did you get the result?
PARTICIPANT 29: It's not very good, I was scared. It's normal, I was scared. Until I got to the doctor and calmed down. She told me that it is not a problem that is done, it is solved with treatments. But of course, I got scared. When I hear it's not good, that's it.
INTERVIEWER: And then, after the results, you said you had treatment, the doctor gave you treatment?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes, after the treatment I have, now I was waiting for November to come to the doctor again and to make an appointment and to come again, tests. Then she did a day hospitalization for me and took a biopsy, but I don't know, because just like that, I got the same result from the lady to see what I should be doing. But she said it was good. She also sent that biopsy to Bucharest and it came and I understood that it was fine.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing? Of the fact that you tested yourself? What do you think is the positive side?
PARTICIPANT 29: I saw what it was about. The body, to me know how it is, because we are getting older and I see that I still have to go to the doctor. Either it's work, or it's children, or work at home, look, we neglect, we neglect ourselves. I am aware that we are neglecting, but that is it.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the downside of testing?
PARTICIPANT 29: No, not really. It's good that we do them and still they guided us and called us from here the people from the hospital, someone called me and alerted me if I want to do it. It's good to do it, there is nothing bad. It's good to have it done and you are helping us as much as it is possible. As I told you, it’s hard. 
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns about the test or the result?
PARTICIPANT 29: Now that it came out bad. I don't know, I don't know what to say, it may not be 100 out of 100, sometimes I have a discharge but not exaggerated, not bad. In my youth I had it worse, but I was still doing treatments, I went to the doctor in Târgu Jiu and I was doing treatment and it passed but no. That's what I said to do it and see what it's like. And now I needed to get an appointment in November, but I also don't know if I won't have cycles (menstruation) again and to do it there. And I hope it goes well, not bad, after treatment after.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 29: I don't know what to say.
INTERVIEWER: What could be done better?
PARTICIPANT 29: Related to what?
INTERVIEWER: Did you go in general, did you go to private?
PARTICIPANT 29: I once went to private. Otherwise, I went on the referral. Private only with my sister-in-law when we got scared. Otherwise no, with the money we have, we can't afford to go private. I'm not. What to. Children, these are the needs. At 1300 (RON) which I get, I go also to private, not so much (she is saying it in an ironic way, that if she goes to private practice with such a small salary). 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the obstacles to going to the doctor? Is that both money and time?
PARTICIPANT 29: Yes, yes, for the private money.
INTERVIEWER: Not necessarily in private. In general.
PARTICIPANT 29: Time I think we do it and let me go tomorrow, let me go the day after tomorrow, let me schedule or when you schedule, as I did now, it happened to me that I can't do it. Look these are the obstacles. So it's not some strict thing. But well God forbid I were to get a very bad outcome, I wouldn't think about money anymore, you borrow money from the bank, because no, we don't have cash in our countryside. But we wouldn’t look at the money and we would move further on if it was a bad thing. But let's hope it's okay, that I don't feel bad or something, pain or something, no no. But even before I did the HPV, honestly I didn't have any pain, I didn't have anything. To know that I have something, no.
INTERVIEWER: The domicile, the distance can it be too? Or this does not matter?
PARTICIPANT 29: No, no. I have a car and traveling by car, this would not be an obstacle. But on private, I told you more about the money, because it's very expensive and we can't afford it. And on top of that, I didn't get a referral, or maybe I couldn’t right on the day when the doctor was able or something else happened that stopped me. But when I wanted to, when we were doing Papanicolau, I went and did it normally. And I did the gynaecological examinations when I was younger, not very often, but I still did them anyway.
INTERVIEWER: If you want to tell us for ending, about the whole experience with the first test, with. So, overall, how did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 29: It was at the beginning, it was a little bit of fear after I did it and the doctor told me that it came back, about a month and a half almost two months the test came. I kept calling and after it came and they told me, obviously that immediately after that I came immediately to see what it was all about. I'll take them and see what it is about. She did, my doctor even a colposcopy and everything that needs to be done here, and she reassured me. She told me that everything is done through treatment, through time, everything will be done well and she reassured me. But now she told me to wait until November to do it again and then let's see for sure what it is and how it is after the treatment after she gave me, after  hospitalization I told you I did the treatment again and now I was waiting, yes, and if you called me, I wanted to do it, but if you can't, that's it.
INTERVIEWER: That's about it. Thank you very much! I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 29: No, no.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 29: With pleasure!


Interview 30_EN

INTERVIEWER: Please note that we will record so that we can then analyse the answers you have given us. Here you have an information sheet about what we do now I will let you have it at home, it is related to the study, the confidentiality of data and so on and I will ask you to write here your name, date and signature. Thanks a lot! My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda and she is our partner from Norway and I will ask you some questions about the experience of the test you did. But firstly, I ask you for some more general data about yourself. Can you tell me how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 30: 37 years old.
INTERVIEWER: And where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 30: In Rovinari.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can say what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 30: I work as an administrator at a pawnshop (exchange) for 11 years.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me what school he did?
PARTICIPANT 30: I did high school, public administration profile and I also did AMG, AMF of pharmacists. That's what I finished last year.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance? The normal one.
PARTICIPANT 30: Well, yes, I have an employment record, I have
INTERVIEWER: Family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 30: Dr. E.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 30: An 11 and 10 months year old girl.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 30: Not too much, but it would be ugly. I do not know. I'm terrified of this stuff. They get me depressed. I've read a bit but not too much because it induces me a state and no, no. Although it's good to have this information so you don't get there, but you can't.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know the cause?
PARTICIPANT 30: Exactly. I do not know.
INTERVIEWER: However, there are no right or wrong answers here, it's what you know or what you think about it.
PARTICIPANT 30: I don't know the cause, I have no idea. I think there, regarding the genital, ruled on, by transmission, untreated. I say or untreated colds, they lead to complications. I do not know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes, but I don't know much. I really heard, but I don't know what. (* participant speaks with a very low voice, very hard to hear everything she says). I have a lapse now.
9INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 30: What do I know in the sense, what does it help me with or?
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the test? Anything you know.
PARTICIPANT 30: It's good to do it annually at least from my point of view. Annually, I did it, it's good to find out in advance.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what it's for?
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes, for the most part. It really has to be done. For all the girls who started their sexual life until they were over 50 years old.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 30: This year, in the summer. That I did last year in October and I didn't know. But I did it again this year after my HPV came out positive.
INTERVIEWER: When did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 30: Still this year when, the last time you came through the campaign.
INTERVIEWER: OK. What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 30: That it is through sexual transmission, it is taken. Infection. Infectious diseases.
INTERVIEWER: And what does it do? Do you know why you're doing it?
PARTICIPANT 30: Well, I guess it also leads to the condition, if you don't treat it, you can get cancer. I don't know, I can tell stories, that's how I think now I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: And have you ever done HPV before?
PARTICIPANT 30: No, and I've never had any problems. When I did it every time I did well the Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: And did you know about HPV before you did it?
PARTICIPANT 30: I knew but I didn't do it. Only Papanicolau, that's all. I didn't do HPV until this happened.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 30: When I did it. When I received it I was told that I (...)
INTERVIEWER: How was the experience of the result?
PARTICIPANT 30: Shocking because I was wondering where, since I was only with my husband, for 20 years, we are. But that's it. I also had some problems and that's where I ended up taking it. So I guess from somewhere else. I guess it's not taken from the toilet lid or saliva, or not, I don't think. And it's a strange because he didn't do that, too. He didn't take the test. I guess it can be done to him too, right? If not it wouldn’t be (* I can't hear what she's trying to say, she speaks very low voice and sound is not very good, also she seems distressed).
INTERVIEWER: And what was it like when you found out?
PARTICIPANT 30: Terrible. I really cried. I was scared because I tell you I associate this thing with the inevitable, I don't even want to say it. But I'm glad that I had treatment and when I did it again, that it came out in Papanicolau and that I had something there, it came out after that that I didn't have that infection anymore.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 30: My sister-in-law who works here. She heard about the campaign and told me if I wanted to participate, and I said yes. She told me it was free. But it really never crossed my mind to participate. Because I saw him strictly there thinking that if you had a relationships, yes. Then it's a good idea to check more often.
INTERVIEWER: And what recommendations did he receive after taking the test?
PARTICIPANT 30: Protection. Protection including with, even if it's my husband. Protection because if he does not protect himself you do not protect yourself. But what do you think, he doesn't agree. Always. Something else to just prevent the vaccine, right? I understand that you can, that is, there is not such a high risk of getting it if you get the vaccine. But I want to get more information about. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: After you received the result, did you do Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes, because I received the result. I was doing some tests then because something was discovered in my uterus, a cyst. We used to have frequent bleeding, so 10, 15 days after my period was over, I was bleeding again. Not much. We kept suggesting what had happened to me before, and I decided to have a more detailed check-up, and that's how I found out I had a cyst.
INTERVIEWER: Colposcopy?
PARTICIPANT 30: That's right. He saw there that I don't know what to say in terms that I didn't even bother to look at the results, if I knew I would take them with me. Something endometrial, I don't know cyst, I don't know, poly, polyendometrial.
INTERVIEWER: And did you get treatment after?
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes, yes. I think it was three months of herbal treatment. I don't know his name anymore.
INTERVIEWER: And how was the treatment?
PARTICIPANT 30: Okay, I didn't have any problem. And I think I have to go back and see how, he said, if you bleed the same way ten days after the end of the menstruation, come back, if you happen to bleed 3, 4 days at most, it's okay. I mean, I took it like it wasn't that bad. But if he kept bleeding like that, then I would have returned. Anyway, I had to return and do it again, I want to do it again. If not, he told me that if I bleed in the same way after a period of 10, 15 days I need to do a curettage. 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think was the positive side of HIV testing?
PARTICIPANT 30: I consider that the fact that I found out earlier that I have the infection. I had symptoms I had never encountered before. I mean, it's one thing to catch a cold, and it's one thing to have itching or stinging, I didn't even know, I said I had a cold. But it wasn't like that. When I had a cold, it stung me on down there and that's about it, the genitals, the ovaries inside like that. Now it had just started, it just itching me. I was washing myself with what and it was still itchy and there was discomfort in itself. Nah and.
INTERVIEWER: And what's the downside to testing?
PARTICIPANT 30: I don't think there's a downside. I wouldn't see what it was.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved? Generally speaking.
PARTICIPANT 30: Well, for example, this campaign thing is very good, they are very welcome. It was the idea because there are people who can't afford it, women in general who can't afford to do it every year or at least at some point. Because they were free and for example it’s not necessarily have the money, because it's not very much to do your HPV that only nah, I allowed myself to do. But I have such an impulse that I have heard that it is free, yes I’ll do. I went to do it because it’s for free after all. But I had other symptoms as well. It’s ok. It would be good to continue these campaigns everywhere, even in the countryside.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns about the test or the outcome?
PARTICIPANT 30: Initially, when it came out positive, I said that it might sound silly, but I said that maybe a mistake was made and that I am not one hundred percent sure. I didn't want to believe it. But after I was told at Papanicolau that I had been found, I don't know how that infection turned out to be real. Even if they are free, they are well made.
INTERVIEWER: So what was your overall experience?
PARTICIPANT 30: I'm generally afraid of doctors and the police. I have a thing of my own. I don't know about myself when I get in there. Although they don’t do anything wrong, the doctors are saving my health. It was ok. I also liked how they behaved and how it was explained, how it was done, also hygienic. And it's good, it's well done. And not only the tests, the genitals, it would be good to do them all (*I think she means other parts of the body/testing). 
INTERVIEWER: And so the overall experience was a positive one.
PARTICIPANT 30: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! That was it. I hope it wasn't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 30: No. Not at all.


Interview 31_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We are recording this interview so that we can then analyse the answers you have given us. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. The lady is Linda our Norwegian project partner. So here I will give you an information sheet that I will leave you related to the study we do and your participation and data, data confidentiality. So, here I am asking you to give me your name, date and signature. Thank you, these remain with you and these will remain with us. So, I'm going to ask you a few questions. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 31: 34.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 31: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 31: In Rovinari (* didn’t understand the location / sound issue).
INTERVIEWER: In Rovinari. Can you tell us what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 31: I work in a games room, sports betting.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell us what school you have?
PARTICIPANT 31: I finished high school.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. I guess you have health insurance if you work?
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes. I've been working for 5 years.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 31: O. L. here.
INTERVIEWER: Here in Rovinari.
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, are you married?
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: So, do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 31: Two. A girl and a boy, 12 and 14 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Long live you! God bless! What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 31: No big deal, except from what I've heard.
INTERVIEWER: Know that there are no right or wrong answers here. It’s your opinion, what do you know,  what have you heard, what do you think.
PARTICIPANT 31: It's something very serious from what I saw. If you happen to have such a thing.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the cause?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don't know what to say, information. That we are not informed correctly or. You don't give enough importance to certain things, problems. You don't go for regular check-ups as it should be done, to do some tests that should be done.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? have you heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 31: No.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 31: It can find out if you have any problems. To be discovered. If you do it at the right time actually, not necessarily when you do it like me.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 31: Last year, after I did the HPV test I was recommended that I should go for Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: And before that, when did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 31: I think three years. So three years ago before it happened last year to be recommended.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the HPV test? and what do you know about HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 31: It's not as serious as it seems by name, so to speak. And maybe find out a bit more. So, I don't know, I understand that both a man and a woman can have it, so it's not just for women. From what I understand.
INTERVIEWER: Did you do the HPV test last year?
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And before last year did he ever do it?
PARTICIPANT 31: No, no. Was it the first time.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about this test before last year, did you hear about it or was it the first time last year?
PARTICIPANT 31: Last year was the first time, I didn't know.
INTERVIEWER: If you could tell us what, what information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don't even know what to tell you, I don't remember exactly what and how. I don’t know what to tell you. I was taken a sample and told to wait for the results and then we see what to do next if something is needed, to do something further or not.
INTERVIEWER: Would you rather go to a female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don't have a thing like that. Being good (to be a good doctor).
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us how was the experience of the result? how was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 31: It was a bit like, as I didn't know exactly what it meant, especially since it's positive. I didn't know why it could be. And Dr. B.'s assistant told me to rest assured that it's not as bad as (...)
INTERVIEWER: And before you talk to the nurse, how was it?
PARTICIPANT 31: Well, immediately when I saw the results I talked.
INTERVIEWER: And what else did he tell you, did he give you any recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 31: To go and do a Papanicolau test and then come up with the results. I was also given a prescription that I have.
INTERVIEWER: And after HPV you did the Babeș Papanicolau test.
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes. I waited for the results, I came with them to the doctor, she gave me another prescription and recommended me some more tests.
INTERVIEWER: And you got treatment.
PARTICIPANT 31: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And what did think of the treatment you performed? (*I don’t understand why this question is asked)
PARTICIPANT 31: It seem good. I haven't had any problems with or anything like that since.
INTERVIEWER: And the experience of the positive result?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don't know what to tell you, my mother was more scared than me, she was more scared when she saw the result. Actually, she brought me to do it. She told me let's go, let's go.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us what you think is the positive side of testing? What's positive, what's the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 31: You can find out ahead if have something and solve that problem, I think. So if you don't take the test you don't know and you wake up in a few with a much more serious illness.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the downside of testing?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don't know what to say. This I do not know. I do not know.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns regarding the test, the result?
PARTICIPANT 31: No. Honestly not. I think if it was something that was much worse or something that was seen when I did last year and everything I did, the rest of the analysis. The test and.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 31: For what?
INTERVIEWER: So in general. What could be improved?
PARTICIPANT 31: I don’t know what to tell you.
INTERVIEWER: You think there are obstacles to not going to the doctor. I don't know, time
PARTICIPANT 31: Time, most of the time (...)
INTERVIEWER: The money, or if you have to go somewhere else.
PARTICIPANT 31: More often is the time, something comes up, I leave it saying I will go another time and so on. Time, nothing else.
INTERVIEWER: So at the end if you want to tell us how you felt about the whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 31: OK. Very good, what can I say.
INTERVIEWER: Even if the result was positive, even if it means all this experience like that?
PARTICIPANT 31: It was okay what more can I say, the fact that my mother kept insisting (*she is using here an expression that I don’t know how to best translate, it means insisting but it can be literally translated as ‘someone sitting with their mouth on you’) and that's all. Otherwise, I had no problems or anything like that.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Thank you very much. That's about it.
PARTICIPANT 31: With pleasure.
INTERVIEWER: I hope the questions weren't uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 31: No, no.
INTERVIEWER: And thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 31: Thanks too!



Interview 32_EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record the interview so we can analyse the answers later. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is our Norwegian partner and I will give for the first time an information sheet about what we do, about the study and what we do. If you want any further information, please contact me here with my address, telephone number and this remains with you and all data is confidential. Please leave your name, date and signature here. You have been to Rovinari, from Rovinari you.
PARTICIPANT 32: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Know that there are no right or wrong answers is your opinion and what you know about certain things and that’s is all. At first, if you can tell me a few things about yourself, how old are you?
PARTICIPANT 32: 47 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 32: The domicile in Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: OK.
PARTICIPANT 32: I am divorced, have been in a relationship for 12 years, and have a 22-year-old daughter.
INTERVIEWER: Long live! What if you could tell me a few things about what do you work?
PARTICIPANT 32: I work at Târgu Jiu City Hall for the Evidence of Persons.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, what if you can tell us which school?
PARTICIPANT 32: Faculty of Economics.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, super. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 32: I don't know very much how it appears, but in general I only know that cancer is a danger no matter where it is located, that it's a cervix, that it's wherever it is positioned, it's a problem. That's why I try to do many checks and be on position (up to date) with the checks not only for me and my daughter too. As such, in January we already did this Papanicolau, but small changes that we do not know how much we can do, we do.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Did you hear the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 32: No. I heard but no. What does not interest me I don’t assimilate it as information.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 32: I know that he can show us 90% of the problems in this area, in the gynaecology area if we do Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 32: I don't know much because I'm already at an age when I don't think this can be done anymore and I don't know how I heard the information from my daughter who I understand she got that from other friends and so on because it exists is, it is a current problem, that is, it is a problem that is quite common lately in young women. I don't know much.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 32: In January this year.
INTERVIEWER: In January and before?
PARTICIPANT 32: Every year.
INTERVIEWER: So do it regularly every year.
PARTICIPANT 32: Periodically. 
INTERVIEWER: Did you do the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 32: No, never.
INTERVIEWER: Never, okay. If you can tell us a few things about the test experience, how does it seem the testing? Painful, embarrassing?
PARTICIPANT 32: No, no. It's ok from my point of view it's ok. I've never had any problems with the sampling or, there is an emotion (as in nervousness) as at any gynaecological examination no matter what the control is about there is an emotion but no, I've never had any problems thinking that I have to, I know I have to do it because we have to take care of us.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 32: Woman, clearly.
INTERVIEWER: Woman. And if you can talk about the experience of the result? How was the result received?
PARTICIPANT 32: Every time, I don't know, maybe I have a dose of pessimism but I'm optimistic. There were no problems and I expected not to be problems, but you think that when there are problems which are, like mine now that it's practically menopause too, you think that there are more things involved and you expect it to be a more different result than you expect. I expected it to be OK but there were small issues that were fixed with treatment. So no (...)
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the testing ?
PARTICIPANT 32: None.
INTERVIEWER: No one, you chose.
PARTICIPANT 32: Yes, I did. Myself.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did you receive when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 32: No information, I took the result from Medlife because that’s where we did, it seems to be one of the best clinics and I did a test of the liquid environment because it seemed to me that, no one recommended it to me. I simply said that liquid medium is better than normal because I also had the normal test version, but I don't know, I don't understand, I thought it was better.
INTERVIEWER: Who gave you treatment?
PARTICIPANT 32: For candidiasis the family doctor like that came out then in January, but later in May I went to a gynaecologist, to a doctor who told me that I had adenomyosis and that I had to be treated with at least one natural medicine because this adenomyosis does not have a cure, there is no cure for adenomyosis. So that's what I understood that when you entered menopause.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did the gynaecologist give you about the Babeș Papanicolau test or?
PARTICIPANT 32: No. Nothing. That was all.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 32: Because you find out in advance if you have a problem. If you have a problem, you have to solve it in time. If you see them, you will find them, discover them at the right time, you can do something for your life, if not, you don't have time to do anything.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 32: There is no negative side from my point of view. I don't know if it exists, there is no negative side.
INTERVIEWER: What could be improved? Changed?
PARTICIPANT 32: For the test?
INTERVIEWER: The test, the testing, in general, at the system, at. 
PARTICIPANT 32: I don't know about the system, I don't know, I mean, this honestly surpass myself. At the testing I don’t know if it seemed normal to me if the answers could be given faster, I don't know. I in a period of two to three weeks time in which not me necessarily, I do not have a problem but I think of other people that recommending them a doctor quickly, in order to make this test waiting with all their  hearts (as in wait with bated breath), there are three weeks of torment. I mean, I don't know what the outcome will be, and that's okay. Whether it's ok or not. But I thought that the medical tests also say something when you had a Papanicolaou and you are worried during that period, you can do a medical test and you can realize if something is serious, it will be something serious even if not necessarily on this side even elsewhere. I thought about this option too and I don't know. I did the tests and I repeated them now, I did them in January and I repeated them now, two weeks ago, three times thinking that it is a gynaecological problem, I don't know if it is, I think it's also the age but it seems very early. The menopause. Very early, considering that it came to me very late, it is very early. Anyway, I am getting side-tracked, let me know if I am off the topic.
INTERVIEWER: No, no, that's fine.
PARTICIPANT 32: And I didn't expect to enter it so early. Three times a month the cycle (period). Not to know when to expect that it's coming because it's not coming, it's worrying. And that's exactly why I did these tests, so that. I would go to the doctor is not very difficult, but in this city it is very difficult to get to a good doctor and opinions are divided in the sense that many say it is good others say no, I mean it has positive, negative feedback. I was very happy when I heard that you were coming because we in the province tend to have more landmarks, Bucharest, Timisoara, Cluj, Targu Mures. I mean, we think that there are better trained doctors because I was in a hospital in Cluj and with gastro and I saw now, well now it's not the case anymore. But I have seen people starting from university professor, specialist doctor, resident, nurses and plus the children, the young people who are going to be doctors from the faculties are present there. I don't know, that's why I have more trust in my people (family?) and I insisted a lot on getting here just because I didn't think there was more interest from the (...)
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you face in general? I don't know, it's the lack of time, the lack of money.
PARTICIPANT 32: For what exactly? For what?
INTERVIEWER: Related to testing, testing.
PARTICIPANT 32: No no.
INTERVIEWER: Only this part, to say the most efficient remote services, if you find a doctor in Târgu Jiu which could. 
PARTICIPANT 32: Yes it is very difficult and very difficult and I personally from my point of view in our city there is one, two good doctors. Well good, who, I know people who gave less negative feedback and I went there for that reason. Most of the time. And then I wonder if it's a problem for me. Maybe it’s me, I'm still thinking, that the result he gave me is the true one, the real one, I mean, we always ask ourselves as long as there are problems after that, after that there is something, there are some problems, new that. You go back because it's not hard, I mean the problem is that he comes from Timisoara, he comes maybe once I don’t know, a month or twice a month, then everyone wants an appointment. You can't get in, it's very difficult. It seems inhuman to me to want to make an appointment knowing that you have a problem and to be able to do it only in three months’ time. It is awful and in all areas not necessarily gynaecology but also cardiology and other fields.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us for the end, the final experience how did it seem with the testing? Haven't you been to the caravan before? Not even last year?
PARTICIPANT 32: I never did. I wish there was more, but you don't have much to do in a caravan. As in the idea that it's very difficult, but with the equipment. I would have liked to have had a normal check-up as is done in a doctor's practice. I don't know if you have the necessary materials, but it would have been very good to have a normal check-up for those who find that they have a problem nah, they would go further, at least they know it. We in the province have more confidence in those from other cities. Believe me, there is no question of, I mean, of money, because I can go to the doctor in Târgu-Jiu. It depends on the problems. It's just a matter of trust and it's very difficult when you know you don't trust anymore and you know that you don't know if your result is real or not. That's why we are glad when they come to, that we receive information that you would come to our city and that it would be better to do more checks than just a Papanicolau test.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! That was all! I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 32: Absolutely not. Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: Thank you, thank you very much!



Interview 33_EN

INTERVIEWER: We record this interview so that we can analyse the answers later. There are no right and wrong answers, just what you think, what you know. I'll give you a sheet to keep and if you ever have any questions you can find us at the phone numbers you find here or related to what we do. And know that the data is confidential. I will ask for your name, date and signature. Date 25. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is our partner from Norway, so I'm going to ask you a few questions. First if you can tell me a few things about yourself. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 33: 40.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 33: Thank you as well!
INTERVIEWER: Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 33: In Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: What is your occupation if you can tell us?
PARTICIPANT 33: I have a hair salon.
INTERVIEWER: Great. Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes, I have a little girl.
INTERVIEWER: And do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes. Should I tell you the name?
INTERVIEWER: No. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 33: Of course yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: You have because you're employed.
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes. I also have a private one.
INTERVIEWER: A super. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well since I was discovered (tranced) with this HPV I have been reading a bit. After this positive test, I did all the tests, I mean, in the way I was recommended for colposcopy, Papanicolau every six months. That's what I do for.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what causes cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 33: This HPV infection. Basically, I accepted this interview precisely in the idea that I thought I would receive more clarification. I will be able to understand more.
INTERVIEWER: At the end of the interview you can ask us anything
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes, I understand.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes, but I don't know what to tell you. I don't know much.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 33: This is the test that I do every six months at the moment and before I did it once a year.
INTERVIEWER: So you know what it's for?
PARTICIPANT 33: I don't know. I think for the detection of a wound on the uterus. I don't know what to say to you, I wouldn't say nonsense.
INTERVIEWER: So the last time you did it was six?
PARTICIPANT 33: No no, two months ago, maximum.
INTERVIEWER: All right.
PARTICIPANT 33: Actually to tell you exactly it was in July, at the end of July.
INTERVIEWER: And before that, you did it six months before.
PARTICIPANT 33: No, I think again this year in January.
INTERVIEWER: Do you do them regularly before?
PARTICIPANT 33: Once a year.
INTERVIEWER: Once a year. What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well, I know. It's a sexually transmitted virus, I understand and that’s all.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 33: The one I did in through in the same way through the campaign.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of HPV before? before our campaign?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes. Of course I heard, but I didn't.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test before?
PARTICIPANT 33: No no. I didn't really think it could be positive, that is, from my point of view, you had to have a sex life, I don't know if I'm right, that's how I thought you need an active sex life, no, I was thinking with different people I thought, and then it would be a much better chance, but especially since it's not just that or I don't know that this is where my uncertainty comes from too.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell us about the test experience? Do you find embarrassing the HPV, Papanicolau, sampling?
PARTICIPANT 33: No, not as long as I did regularly.
INTERVIEWER: And how did the test experience seem to you? 
PARTICIPANT 33: Nah, of course it's not a pleasant thing to do. But I don't think it’s. It's somehow an embarrassing that you have before, so to say, but no. I mean, I was the kind of person who went regularly, actually I was going regularly.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes women (*both laughing).
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Who recommended you the HPV testing last year?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well, I have a client who was a nurse at Sante, and that's how she was keep insisting come come come and I said ok, I’ll come.
INTERVIEWER: What information did you receive when you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 33: Ah no big deal. I was in a great hurry, I took the test and ran. No, after that.
INTERVIEWER: OK. How was the experience of the result? When you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 33: Terrible. Shocking to say so. I called directly, I have my doctor with whom I gave birth and I have been going to her all the time since then. I called desperately I sent her the answer, I went the next day I think I was in Bucharest I did the colposcopy. So from here you can conclude how it was. Especially since I also have a liver problem and all the time I was stressed by this side and I think I got an obsession or something and I was even more shocked to find out that there is something else.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive about the result?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well what to receive. My doctor tells me that as long as Papanicolau is good, colposcopy is good to stay reassured (peaceful/calm). Now what can I say, I don't know how much she wants to calm me down but at the same time she tells me that it's ok for me to do Papanicolau every six months.
INTERVIEWER: What other recommendations have you received?
PARTICIPANT 33: If you are referring to the vaccine, I did not receive this recommendation, but I have read something like that there is a vaccine. Now for this vaccine for covid because I'm vaccinated and I'm vaccination. I'm a little stressed out that I should do one more.
INTERVIEWER: What treatment did you receive? Did you receive treatment?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes, I received treatment. I think with colpostop, or colposcip. Something like, a gel with an applicator. And I know I had to be treated for immunity but my doctor recommended it to me but she told me to ask my hepatologist and the hepatologist said it was excluded. And I took it, it gave me a lot of vitamins on this side as well. I mean, that's my problem, they're kind of fighting. You're not allowed to, but you have to, but then take these other ones.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive experience, the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 33: The positive side. That I would rather know what is happening to me than go ahead and know nothing, and that seems to me the positive side. I prefer to test myself for everything and know what happens to me. Maybe prevent maybe.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the a negative side of testing? What do you think it is?
PARTICIPANT 33: It is not pleasant or you find out that you have a problem, of course it is not pleasant to know that you have a problem. But that's it, you better know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think can be changed, improved?
PARTICIPANT 33: What exactly are you referring to?
INTERVIEWER: Anything to say about the testing, the results, the system, anything you want to tell us?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well, that would be a discussion far too long. Let me tell you what changes in the system in Romania, I am the kind of a patriot but the only reason (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer to go private or state?
PARTICIPANT 33: Yes, obviously, that’s why private health insurance. I even said that if I gave birth again and I didn't have money, I would go and borrow and still give birth there. I also dreamed at night that I was giving birth in Târgu-Jiu, so I was. Unfortunately yes.
INTERVIEWER: OK. What obstacles do you face or have encountered or do you think you may face? I mean, maybe I don't know the lack of time, the lack of money, the distance to go elsewhere? Or maybe I don't know any of these obstacles if you think so?
PARTICIPANT 33: Obstacles for what? What do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: For testing.
PARTICIPANT 33: For testing. Well, no, that's all there it’s also the time and distance and money because you don't feel like spending money on it, but when you find that you have a problem there are no more obstacles, for me at least there are no obstacles, neither time, neither distance nor money nor anything. Only in everyday life, it is clear that you are not going to get HPV because you said and I am, but no, that you can do it in Târgu Jiu I guess, I don't think distance would be a problem. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell us an a final though, the overall experience, how did it seem, with the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 33: Well, I told you, that was my trauma. Let's just say I calmed down after the second Papanicolau test came out and it was OK. It was when I calmed down a bit. What more could I say than that. It was traumatic for me and I tried everything.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. That was. Thank you! I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable
PARTICIPANT 33: Not at all.



Interview 34_EN

INTERVIEWER: We're recording to review your answers. I'll give you an information sheet that you can keep yourself, read at home, about what we do and know that all data is confidential, that's the most important thing. Here I will ask you to enter the name, date and signature I give you a pen here.
PARTICIPANT 34: Date 25?
INTERVIEWER: Aha. And here the signature. Thanks a lot!
PARTICIPANT 34: With pleasure!
INTERVIEWER: My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. The lady is Linda.
PARTICIPANT 34: I'm glad!
INTERVIEWER: Our partner in Norway. And I'm going to ask you a few questions. There are no right or wrong answers, it's what you know, what you think and what, that's all. And at first you can tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 34: 53.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! And the domicile?
PARTICIPANT 34: In Târgu-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu-Jiu. Can you tell us what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 34: Manicure, hair salon, manicure.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us what your education is, what school did you finish?
PARTICIPANT 34: High school.
INTERVIEWER: High school, super. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Alright and a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 34: Alone, divorced.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children too?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes, a girl and a three-year-old girl granddaughter.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 34: Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 34: I don't know much like that, just to go and do investigations, to go periodically to do a Papanicolau, to a control. Something else.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the cause?
PARTICIPANT 34: I don't know what that’s why I'm afraid of this HPV, there are several causes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 34: I heard but no, no.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes, here cancer is detected and you have to go regularly.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a test?
PARTICIPANT 34: A year ago. I don't know if it's a year. Yes, I did, I went, I went regularly.
INTERVIEWER: OK before that? When have you been or do you regularly do it every year?
PARTICIPANT 34: I do. Maybe two years have passed but not now, I did. I did it. Let's say it's been two years and I've done it and seen it. I repeated the HPV, I was given some ovules (...)
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 34: Well, this one that has more strains and some of them are of cancerous nature.
INTERVIEWER: What?
PARTICIPANT 34: 16, 18 strains (...)
INTERVIEWER: When did you take the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 34: I don't know exactly to tell you the month. 
INTERVIEWER: Last year?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: And before that did you ever do the HPV test or was it the first time?
PARTICIPANT 34: No, it was the first time, HPV.
INTERVIEWER: Did you know about the HPV test before you did it? Have you heard of it?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes, I heard about it, I heard. Papanicolau I did only, consultation and Papanicolau but I didn't this one, now I repeated it. Done it.
INTERVIEWER: How did the testing seem? If it's painful, if it's embarrassing? If there is? How did it seem, the testing?  
PARTICIPANT 34: More embarrassing. That's why I think many women don’t, something a bit more uncomfortable.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 34: No, I went to both. No no. I've been to both men and women.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you the HPV testing?
PARTICIPANT 34: HPV. Also through, through, what do you call it?
INTERVIEWER: Campaign.
PARTICIPANT 34: Through the campaign, campaign, Also through campaign.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us about the experience of the result? How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 34: I was a little scared. When I saw HPV. I went and did it again and was given a treatment. I was told more (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did you repeat the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 34: Not HPV, Papanicolau. And I was given one, they said I did the sampling myself and it was not (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did you do the self-sampling?
PARTICIPANT 34: Yes, yes and maybe it wasn't in the best condition or I didn't know how. And then I repeated Papanicolau and I was given a treatment they said maybe from menopause. I was given the ovules treatment (...)
INTERVIEWER: Who gave you the treatment?
PARTICIPANT 34: Also at a practice I went, at a practice. 
INTERVIEWER: At a private practice?
PARTICIPANT 34: Private yes. Private.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu Jiu or elsewhere?
PARTICIPANT 34: In Târgu Jiu, but after that I was not after the ovules (...)
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did they give you?
PARTICIPANT 34: To go and repeat it. To repeat it. And look I didn’t go since, with regret, I didn’t go. Time, I don’t know.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And how did the Pap result come then?
PARTICIPANT 34: The papa came out well so to say, it didn't come wrong. A little bit good, I was given the treatment and I was told me to come back. But I wasn't. And that's why I was called by you from here, where I'm in the database, and then I said I should come if I was called anyway. They were here in August but I was in the countryside and I lost the opportunity, so it happens and when we wake up we wake up too late.
INTERVIEWER: What other recommendations did you receive or that was it?
PARTICIPANT 34: That's it. I didn't even go to receive because maybe (...)
INTERVIEWER: And treatment, what kind of treatment did you do?
PARTICIPANT 34: With ovules. I don't know anymore, ovestin (*name of medicine).
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 34: Positive, it's good I don't know, I don't know what to tell you.
INTERVIEWER: So what do you think is a good thing about all this testing and everything that's been done?
PARTICIPANT 34: It's good that, I don't know how to tell you. We are called, I mean that not. We are not left out that those, I do not know, and come out well from the test that (...)
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the negative side of the testing?
PARTICIPANT 34: I don't know what to answer you.
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you think you have encountered or may encounter when you want to take a test?
PARTICIPANT 34: To encounter it’s that they're pretty expensive. Money, after all. Because an HPV to see the strain or that costs 400 lei 500 lei and we postpone it.
INTERVIEWER: Time? Could be? and lack of time?
PARTICIPANT 34: And time is too, the time, but anyway if it was acceptable I think we would make time for it because like this is. I went to Papanicolau, an intravaginal consultation for 350 lei. I do it once, but after two years, maybe. Yeah, nu can’t afford it that’s it.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us for the end, all the experience with the HPV test. How did you seem, with the experience of the test, with the experience of the result, as a final thought?
PARTICIPANT 34: Well, I know how to tell you. I don't know what to say, experience. It's not a pleasant experience to take a test and hear that HPV has come out or, it's not pleasant. But I take it as it is that maybe it's not those bad strains and they're less bad, because all of them they're not good in the end.
INTERVIEWER: All right. Thanks a lot! I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 34: I answered as much as I knew.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you!


Interview 35_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record so we can analyse the answers later. I'll give you an information sheet here that you can take home. Yes, and here I will ask you to give me your name, date and signature.
PARTICIPANT 35: Date?
INTERVIEWER: 25th. My name is A.D., I work at the Oncology Institute in Cluj, the lady is Linda our partner from Norway and I will ask you some questions today Yes?
PARTICIPANT 35: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 35: 56 years old.
INTERVIEWER: 56 years old. And domicile?
PARTICIPANT 35: Târgu Jiu
INTERVIEWER: Târgu-Jiu. What is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 35: I am an engineer.
INTERVIEWER: OK and are you professing?
PARTICIPANT 35: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 35: I have. That card.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 35: Yes, I also have a family doctor. Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 35: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 35: Two girls also married.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 35: It wreaks havoc. So God forbid. So that.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. What do you think is the cause?
PARTICIPANT 35: Cause. Well, I couldn't say why I understood that every human being has a genome or what they call cancer in it, and in the event of a stronger upset it could start, so I'm not sure how to explain it to you. For example, it's breast and stomach cancer, and I can't say the cause of the cervix.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 35: Isn't this screening? Controls like that, right?
INTERVIEWER: Yeah, OK. What is the Babeș Papanicolau test? What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 35: Well, that's the test that is done, it is done, I think, once a year after 50 years and up, but of course I give you an example, I told you that for reasons with the disabled child I haven’t done it so far that it would be good to do it once a year to detect the eventualities, to take it with the treatment earlier so (...)
INTERVIEWER: And when was the last time you did it outside of today?
PARTICIPANT 35: Apart from today, I did it at a private office, I think in 2018. Not since then. I haven't done it before.
INTERVIEWER: And before that?
PARTICIPANT 35: 2016 when you came there to the Christian Tell library on Popa 7.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, yes. What do you know about the HPV test? Have you ever heard of the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 35: I heard I heard, it's all about cancer, isn't it? I don't know how to translate, herpes? I don't know how, or I mean HPV. I do not know anymore. I once read about it.
INTERVIEWER: Have you ever had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 35: No. Never.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me how did the testing seem to you? 
PARTICIPANT 35: This testing seems to me to be very beneficial for us, the poor, and I really wanted to suggest to Mrs. Linda that you come and do other things that are very beneficial.
INTERVIEWER: Come back again.
PARTICIPANT 35: So I didn't do it because of the money, because maybe the lady doesn’t understand Romanian, and I have a nephew with a severe handicap, he has autism, he doesn't know anything about himself. His father left him at the age of two and since then I have only taken care of him, I have only said about myself, not anymore, done. I didn't do it anymore and as I saw yesterday on that group with the mayor's office, I said yes to myself, I'm leaving work and I'm leaving too fast if I’ll manage to do it. So it's very beneficial and know that the world here is poor, so to speak. It's a poor city.
INTERVIEWER: Do you find it embarrassing, uncomfortable?
PARTICIPANT 35: No, no, absolutely not.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 35: If it's for my own good can be anyone, that doesn't matter to me. So it's not about, it's treating me, isn't it? I don't care it’s not like that man didn't see any more pussies.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. How was the experience of the result when you received the result in 2016?
PARTICIPANT 35: Well, it scares you anyway, so the result scares you, especially when, when you see that it's something a little serious and you say no, you had to take it in advance, to find it, to treat yourself, I don't know what. But I also told you because of the money and you have problems you leave yourself until you get very. 
INTERVIEWER: What recommendations did you receive then?
PARTICIPANT 35: To do every six months, but I did not.
INTERVIEWER: What other information did you receive? Have you ever had any treatment?
PARTICIPANT 35: Yes, I took treatment, with some ovules, some pills, I don't know anymore, I don't know what I took and what I have. I told you I didn't take care of myself at all because of the baby, the grandson. My daughter was left alone with him when she was two years old, she divorced her and she came to us and since then we only went to her with therapies, we thought we would do well only with these therapies. Now, after six years of day-to-day therapy, I tried to force myself to understand that there is nothing else to do and said well (*she stops talking and seems distressed / sad).
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing? What's the good thing?
PARTICIPANT 35: Well, it's very good that money, the money you do not pay it and you find out about your health in the end that this is important but I told you that the lack of money and other problems don’t go, people stay, women unlit they fall so to speak. They're not going.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the downside of testing?
PARTICIPANT 35: I don't think there is a negative side or at least I don't think there is a negative side. That what to do to you, it does you good in the end right? As the saying goes from the vaccine. Well, in August I went and got vaccinated and now you've seen what is here, so it's not a negative, I don't think it exists.
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles have you encountered or are facing when you want to take a test?
PARTICIPANT 35: I told you the lack of money for me. I don't know if there is a practice in Târgu Jiu that can do with a referral ticket, so I know all the private and you go there and everything costs money. That's what I think it is.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. And as an experience, what did everything seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 35: As an experience I told you it's a very good thing and I was really glad to hear that you were coming again. I said why these gentlemen hadn't come before. So that's a good thing. What more, it’s a wonderful and enjoyable experience for everyone, not just me.
INTERVIEWER: And the experience of the test and the result even if?
PARTICIPANT 35: Good, what to say, that you find out what you have and God forbid I told you, you leave and try to treat what is left to be treated, what can I say.
INTERVIEWER: All right. Thanks a lot! That's about it, I hope it wasn't too much, the questions.
PARTICIPANT 35: No. I hope and it will be fine too.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!


Interview 36_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We record the interview so that we can analyse your answers one by one. Here we have prepared an information sheet with what we do. Please note that all data is confidential. That remains for you and in case you want to contact us in the future, you have here on the last page my phone number and email address. So, once I give you this and here I will ask you to write your name, date and signature. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncology Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda our partner from Norway. I will ask you some questions to which there are not correctly or wrong answers. What you know, your opinion and so on. And if you can tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 36: 35.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 36: Thank you as well!
INTERVIEWER: The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 36: Bumbești-Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: OK, what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 36: I work at an arms factory.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 36: No, divorced.
INTERVIEWER: Divorced. Do you have children?
PARTICIPANT 36: A six-and-a-half-year-old boy.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 36: Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 36: Not too many. I know more about the breast as I had in the family, I still have a cousin on my brain now (cancer). In my family, a lot of people had cancer. But I didn't hear about the cervix, I hope I don’t have it.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what the cause is?
PARTICIPANT 36: I think the problems down there which are untreated. Colds, infections.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you ever heard of screening?
PARTICIPANT 36: No.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 36: It is an analysis that reveals a bacterium in our body.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 36: Well, the first time in my life I did it two years ago.
INTERVIEWER: I understand OK.
PARTICIPANT 36: After that I did the HPV with you. Same. When I repeated after HPV, I did another Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about HPV?
PARTICIPANT 36: That it is a. We find out if there are risks of having cancer. That's what I understood.
INTERVIEWER: And when did you take the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 36: The first time with you when it was the campaign for free, and then I repeated it.
INTERVIEWER: Did you have HPV or Pap?
PARTICIPANT 36: HPV and Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: You did both?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: OK, and before you did it with us, have you ever heard of HPV?
PARTICIPANT 36: I didn't know. Never.
INTERVIEWER: Never.
PARTICIPANT 36: So I never heard.
INTERVIEWER: If you can tell us a few things about the test experience, how did the testing seem to you? Was it painful?
PARTICIPANT 36: No, no. So the first time it wasn't painful at all, at the first HPV. And then they explained the details to me better, so they explained to us on our own understanding what it is about and that it was good to do them once a year, I understood. Especially if it comes out with problems (the result) and to go to the gynaecological check-up as often as possible, that's what they told us.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information? Who gave you this information?
PARTICIPANT 36: Dr. D., I did it for him. He gave me a treatment after the result of HPV immunity. Some pills, I took two weeks, yes, two breaks for three months and then he repeated my HPV and Papanicolau and it came out positive and honestly that I had surgery with him for endometriosis. And it was very expensive and I didn’t have any more. I gave up both treatments and everything. And now your colleague called me and I said let's try again.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer to go to a female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 36: I don't care.
INTERVIEWER: How was it when you received the result? When you saw that it was positive?
PARTICIPANT 36: I was at work in second shift. And let me tell you my feel left me (as in fainting) so I didn’t know anything about myself anymore and it’s bad because I didn’t find a doctor who can explain it to me. They told me to stay calm, it's OK, here in Târgu Jiu. And that hurt me a lot (...)
INTERVIEWER: Is that what the doctor told you?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes, he told me to rest assured that this is not a problem. I do not know. And I changed my doctor after that. I went to Cărbunești to a resident doctor from, I don't know where he came from, he gave me a Papanicolau for free and he told me that it would be better to get in touch where I first did the test because he doesn't believe either that it would be big problems and he gave me a prescription it was just as expensive and I didn't take it. So I didn't take that. I took the first prescription then I took it, it was 300 and something lei a prescription. These are.
INTERVIEWER: And what other recommendations did he make?
PARTICIPANT 36: He told me to repeat Papanicolau and do an ovule treatment, this is what he recommended himself and in February I should go and repeat Papanicolau. Excuse me. (*phone ringing)
INTERVIEWER: No problem. So you only did immunity treatment?
PARTICIPANT 36: Immunity and with an antibiotic and ovules then the first time (...) 
INTERVIEWER: What did Dr. G. give you?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes, what Dr. G. gave me, I took them, now from the last prescription I didn’t take it.
INTERVIEWER: Ok and so all the experience on the experience of the result and how did it seem?
PARTICIPANT 36: The first time was a shock to me, knowing the situation in the family that. But I said what I don't know it doesn't affect me. Having an older child just me, and I said I better not know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 36: What do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: I mean if you think that it’s a good thing anyway that you did the testing? 
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes. Yes, because I could take it ahead of time if I had a problem, which is why I asked the doctor very insistently to take out everything I read on the internet and he said no, that it is not the case. However, I said I even if not to get a chance of getting cancer. Now.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side? I mean, if there's anything.
PARTICIPANT 36: That would be the downside, not to have something like that. I don't even know how to express myself. I hope with all my heart that this is not the case. Many of my cousins died of cancer. More in the family. I'm afraid it's not something genetic. I don't know what to.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think could be improved, or changed? I don't know what could change, what could be done better?
PARTICIPANT 36: I would have insisted on this thing, to get everything out (means remove uterus etc). I think that's because there should be no more problems with endometriosis, that I have bleeding and terrible pain. So at menstruation I had, I did not have menstruation for five months, I took a treatment from Mr. G. hormonal it came back to me and then I discovered that I had endometriosis. He operated me. I suffered very badly and now it appeared again, the cysts can be felt with one hand (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did the doctor operate you?
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes. He operated on me four and a half years after the c-section, two years ago in October it was two years. And I wouldn't want to go through that torment and that pain anymore. Although once a month I told you I have, so I have too many, only cysts, only clots and not only terrible pains, so I get numb from the waist down so I just can no longer feel my legs and I have no strength in me. Yes, I'm taking algocalmin (Panadol), aulin, what I know for pain relief.
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you face when you want to take the test? The lack of time, lack of money?
PARTICIPANT 36: Lack of money. That was always a problem. But I had that chance when, when it was. I really didn't know about this analysis. A cousin of mine works at a clinic like this and recommended me to go on this thing because it's very good and everything is done in Cluj, it's good and she also did blood tests to see the percentage of being suspected of cancer and she told me that I was a little higher because I was a smoker, in her opinion, but she is not a doctor. And she told me when I was going to get money, to get over this pandemic problem, she recommend me to go to Cluj there. And I said get over the pandemic. So that was in my mind to get there, I don't want to go to every doctor to give his opinion.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, so since the last time you did it you haven't been at all?
PARTICIPANT 36: No.
INTERVIEWER: Basically, the reason that you were not at all was?
PARTICIPANT 36: Money.
INTERVIEWER: Lack of money.
PARTICIPANT 36: Yes, that's the truth.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. As an overall experience, how do you think you went through this, that you found out the result, how do it seem to you the whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 36: It is a very good thing that we have the opportunity to do these analyses, those who do not have the financial possibility. So this is something unique for us that does not allow anyone to do this analysis to try as for example now a Papanicolau or something. You don't do that all the time, that's why I came. So I'm not, here in Târgu Jiu, we don't have a doctor here to say, not even with a referral. He apologizes, there are no, it doesn’t come, no. Everything is for a fee in private. These are.
INTERVIEWER: Those are the questions. I hope they weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 36: No.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you so much for the interview!
PARTICIPANT 36: Thank you too!



Interview 37_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We record the interview so that we can analyse the answers you give us. I will give you an information sheet first and here at the end you have our contact details in case you have any questions. Please note that all data is confidential. Please write your name, date and signature here. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and we are doing this study on behalf of my Norwegian partner Mrs. Linda is here present. I'll start by asking you a few questions about yourself. Can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 37: 47.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 37: Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Târgu Jiu. What is your job?
PARTICIPANT 37: I'm an economist.
INTERVIEWER: And if you can tell us what education you have, what you finished, what school?
PARTICIPANT 37: Faculty of Economics.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 37: I am an employee.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 37: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 37: Yes. I have a seven-year-old daughter.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 37: Thank you too!
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 37: What do I know. I know that all women who have cancer, have cervical cancer have also and HPV. But not everyone with HPV will get cancer. And I think we have to take the issue a little more seriously, I mean, we have to take care of ourselves, do some checks, some, so that we don't. Because now, for example, I had covid a few weeks ago, and if the immune system goes down, stupid things can happen in the body, I think.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 37: Papanicolau. Well, the test that is done to detect early cervical cancer.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you performed?
PARTICIPANT 37: I did it in December and I think it came out 2 to 3. Something like that.
INTERVIEWER: And before December when was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 37: Ah, a long time ago, aaa, now some (...)
INTERVIEWER: How often do you do it?
PARTICIPANT 37: I did it about four years ago, I think, or even more. But no, if I didn't have problems and I kept postponing, I know it has to be done every year after 45 years, yes (...)
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 37: HPV, I know that they show the cancer-causing strains, the aggressive strains as it probably was, the test in your project.
INTERVIEWER: When did you take the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 37: Last year in September.
INTERVIEWER: Last year in September. And before last year in September did you ever do it?
PARTICIPANT 37: HPV never, no.
INTERVIEWER: Did you hear about HPV before taking the test last year? Did you know, did you hear?
PARTICIPANT 37: Yes. I had heard, but I said it was something that did not happen to me.
INTERVIEWER: If you could tell us how the testing was, how was the sampling, how did it seem to you?
PARTICIPANT 37: It was OK. I think I have a higher sensitivity and I had a bit of discomfort but it probably still happens to people. I also bled a little then and (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 37: No, it doesn't matter. Does not matter. The important thing is to be professional, the sex doesn't matter. I would probably feel more comfortable with a woman, but no, it doesn't matter.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommend you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 37: A client of mine, a family doctor. Mrs. P., we were talking and randomly (...)
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did she give you?
PARTICIPANT 37: She told me that you are from Cluj and that you do, you have this HPV screening program and he gave me this phone number, I called and did the test.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 37: Well, he was a little upset because. But I researched and anyway it was that degree of I don't know about the infestation or as they say, it was 20, 30 so it wasn't too big and I understood that it's not very alarming.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you do after that?
PARTICIPANT 37: I did Papanicolau and even though the doctor who took the sample told me that I would have a kind of wound there like a pea and I thought it would be useful to also do a colposcopy. But I didn't manage with the pandemic, the madness.
INTERVIEWER: Have you received any other recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 37: Yes, not to be scared.
INTERVIEWER: Have you had any treatment?
PARTICIPANT 37: No, absolutely nothing.
INTERVIEWER: And so was the whole positive test experience? You shared it with someone, did you?
PARTICIPANT 37: Eh, with his family members. I also talked to friends.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 37: The positive part of the test is that we know we have the virus and we need to monitor I guess. We have to keep in mind, to do this Papanicolau at six months, I was also told that colposcopy is very good to see if there were any wounds. I understood that there were problems. And I don't know if I should do any more tests to see if it's more that degree of I don't know what to call it, replication, of I don't know what.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 37: I don't think it has any negative sides, I mean it's a good thing that we know we have a problem. Very useful especially because nah, no, very few people go to take the test because it's a bit expensive and.
INTERVIEWER: Are there any obstacles that prevent you from taking regular testing?
PARTICIPANT 37: For Papanicolau? No, it can be done even here the Papanicolau. That on colposcopy I said I would go somewhere more professional. I don't know how to say.
INTERVIEWER: Can lack of time be an obstacle?
PARTICIPANT 37: Eh, we make time if.
INTERVIEWER: Can the lack of money be?
PARTICIPANT 37: Lack of money, no, because it is not expensive the Papanicolau maybe other investigations or other treatments to be more expensive but.
INTERVIEWER: Distance possibly? If you have to go elsewhere, may it be the lack of transportation?
PARTICIPANT 37: Eh, we can handle it, I don't think that's a problem.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think we can improve? What can we change? What can we do better?
PARTICIPANT 37: Well, I know, I don't know. I think it's okay as it's ok. I understand that you intend to continue to help people who have problems and.
INTERVIEWER: How do you feel about the whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 37: No, it's a positive experience.
INTERVIEWER: Even if the result was.
PARTICIPANT 37: It was negative, but it's useful to know that.
INTERVIEWER: Did he stress you out? Are you?
PARTICIPANT 37: It was a little upsetting when I found out and now I'm still thinking about what's going on there. HPV? Would it have stagnated, would it have evolved and with that the little wound, the cytologist told me. There are some question marks that have stayed there somewhere.
INTERVIEWER: Those were the questions I hope they weren’t very uncomfortable. If you want to tell us something else, if that's not, that’s it.
PARTICIPANT 37: It's ok.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 37: I wanted to know if you still have colposcopy?
INTERVIEWER: You can do a colposcopy at Dr. D. Just so you know, talk to the girls, talk to the girls to make an appointment after the first date, because I understand that the doctor is on vacation for the time being.



Interview 38_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We're recording this interview so we can analyse. Here is an information sheet, all data is confidential in case you have questions you can tell us at the phone number, email addresses are listed here. That remains with you and here I will ask for your name, date and signature. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncology Institute in Cluj and Mrs. Linda is our partner from Norway and I will ask you a few things about you. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 38: 36.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 38: Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 38: Here in Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: In Târgu Jiu. And if you can tell us what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 38: Now at home, I'm staying at home.
INTERVIEWER: And before?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes, I was a school secretary.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. Do you have health insurance now?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you co-insured?
PARTICIPANT 38: No.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes, a 10-year-old boy.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 38: Thank you as well!
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 38: I know it's not very, it's not accelerating, it's not very fast, just that I was on the verge of cancer if I would have stayed one more month, it would have been cancer. I had an intervention after the discovery, I discovered that I am, I am positive for HPV through you, I waited but not long because I could not wait for the people from Cluj to call me and they called me after about nine months. If I was waiting for the people from Cluj it would have been 100% cancer. Because after the Papanicolaului I had to have a conization, at the biopsy from the conization I had cin 3, that is the stage before the cancer and I was told that I was at the limit, a month if I would have stayed it was cancer. Now I'm keeping a close eye on anything, in case something comes up.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 38: I know that if it is positive and it does not affect, there is no problem because I understood that my sister did it after and she is positive but it did not affect anything. Now that it can, depending on your immunity, I understand, it can affect you, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: When did you take the HPV test? Last year?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes. Last year, I think in August.
INTERVIEWER: And before last year have you ever had HPV?
PARTICIPANT 38: No.
INTERVIEWER: Did you hear about HPV before taking the test or was it the first time?
PARTICIPANT 38: I had heard something else but no, I was not very informed about.
INTERVIEWER: And the Papanicolau? What do you know about the Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 38: That it says a lot, more than a gynaecological check-up. In fact, for me, for example, at the gynaecological examination nothing could be seen, it was nothing. But at Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 38: Now, in August.
INTERVIEWER: In August. And before when did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 38: Before I found out they I am positive for HPV?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 38: I hadn't done it in eight years.
INTERVIEWER: For 8 years, I understand. Have you heard about screening?
PARTICIPANT 38: No. Or maybe I heard but not with this screening term.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me how was the sampling experience like?
PARTICIPANT 38: Without any problems.
INTERVIEWER: No embarrassment, no?
PARTICIPANT 38: None.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 38: I don’t care.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended you HPV testing for the first time?
PARTICIPANT 38: A friend who heard about the program you had and that's how I got there.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 38: I received nothing but that I would be notified, I mean that I will be called after the result. But I was called quite late after the result, I mean, after a month or so. I was told that I would be called after the test (...)
INTERVIEWER: How was the experience of the result? How was it when you found out?
PARTICIPANT 38: It was a shock, a big big shock because I didn't know exactly very much. I knew that if you are not positive for HPV, rest assured that you will not get cervical cancer for a long time. And when I heard that I was positive and of great value, normally I was scared and immediately tried to see what I could do.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you do right away?
PARTICIPANT 38: I called, I have a friend a gynaecologist doctor in Bucharest. I called him and he told me we had to do a Papanicolau immediately because he couldn't tell me anything. After the Papanicolau (...)
INTERVIEWER: Did you do Papanicolau immediately after?
PARTICIPANT 38: Yes. Yes, I did right away. I don't know, at two, three, a week I don't know exactly. I did Papanicolau, the result came out and he told me we had to have a surgery. I also tried to consult with someone else so that I would not only stick to one opinion. The same thing was said to me, that is, to make a conization to remove what has been installed and to see what comes out of the biopsy, to see what decision we stop or continue with the intervention.
INTERVIEWER: And what other recommendations did he give you?
PARTICIPANT 38: My doctor? After the biopsy, Papanicolauu should be done at 4, 5, 6 months to see, so that nothing appears. We have done nothing else. I was interested, I thought maybe some immunity, so I went to another gynaecologist-oncologist. Because if I was on the line, but no, he said that nothing was needed.
INTERVIEWER: Treatment? have you had any other treatments?
PARTICIPANT 38: I also got something for immunity but that was it.
INTERVIEWER: What is the positive side of testing? What do you think is the good thing about taking a test?
PARTICIPANT 38: That I found out, because it could have been too late when I found out. I thanked God that I found out just in time even though it wasn't easy and I had to have an operation but it wasn't cancer. I really have my goddaughter now who found out a week ago that she has cancer. Also because of HPV. And now when I was there I was a little upset with the people from the project or what you have here because, I mean, I was expecting anyway, if I started going on this road, I mean, it seems fair to me that, guys, if we go on a road, let's finish it up not stopping halfway. I was still waiting to be called even if it wasn't maybe after a month later, but after seven or eight months. Even though I may have already solved the problem because not everyone is waiting to be called by, because you don’t know when they will call you. But I was still grateful that I found out, that I could have not go and find out, not.
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the downside of testing?
PARTICIPANT 38: I don't see why it should be a negative part, it's not a negative part. I mean, the best thing to do is test yourself, it’s indicated. Before I got pregnant, I had a Papanicolau test at 6 months, but then, I said, since my son was one year old, I have nothing why should I keep going and to check myself. But it is good also to do the Papanicolau and HPV. Well, I don't know how much the HPV. And if nothing comes out from the Papanicolau, I don't know if you should stay all day and go for your HPV tests, but it’s good to do the HPV test once every few years. Now I don't know if for example you come out positive for HPV but it doesn't affect you, do you have to do something? Is there anything you can do to help prevent it?
INTERVIEWER: Now you are the one who has to give the answers (laughing) (*I find this very strange, the lady seems a bit worried and confused and I don’t understand the situation but it’s a bit weird for me the way it sounds). Afterwards you will talk to the doctor at the caravan and you can ask her.
PARTICIPANT 38: Well, yes, I understand that it doesn’t matter if I'm talking to the doctor in the caravan, because I understand that she won't vaccinate me. The girls outside told me.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think are the obstacles for which you are not going to take a test, for example, the lack of time can be. Or lack of money?
PARTICIPANT 38: No, I think it's convenience.
INTERVIEWER: Or the distance?
PARTICIPANT 38: I don't think so. Do you mean for HPV?
INTERVIEWER: For HPV, for Babeș Papanicolau.
PARTICIPANT 38: It may be sometimes, but not the lack of money, but no. You're not shaved inguinal (bikini line) as a woman. You're not shaved on your legs. I don't know, I had some of these. I am going now, no, leave it, because I am not shaved on my legs or let me go next month, let it be because, some of these reasons, not because you don’t have time, you find time if you want.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And so as a total experience, the experience of testing, sampling, the result, so as final experience?
PARTICIPANT 38: Ok. OK.
INTERVIEWER: As a final thought, how did is seem?
PARTICIPANT 38: Okay, I didn't have any problems with testing, sampling or, getting the result was worse, so what can we do. I was glad however, and thanked God for I repeat, that it was not worse. And I hope it won’t be, I'd like to get vaccinated, but I understand that the doctor says that if you're already positive, she won't vaccinate you.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you for agreeing to answer our questions!
PARTICIPANT 38: Thank you too!



Interview 39_EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record this discussion so we can analyse the answers later. This is an information sheet that I will give you, which will remain with you. All the data you give me is confidential and in the future if you have any questions here are our contact details. Now here I am going to ask you to write the name date and signature of today, 25 is today. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Ms. Linda is our partner in Norway and I would like to ask you some test questions. Know that there are no right or wrong answers. What is your opinion and what do you know. And if you can tell me how old you are at first?
PARTICIPANT 39: 47 years.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 39: In Aninoasa in the countryside. Rural, urban. Rural if.
INTERVIEWER: What is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 39: I am a community nurse.
INTERVIEWER: That's great. Can you tell me what school you did?
PARTICIPANT 39: Carol Davila post-secondary health school. The last one, because I have others.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. Medical insurance?
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 39: Two.
INTERVIEWER: Long live! What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 39: That it is very dangerous. From my point of view.
INTERVIEWER: In what sense?
PARTICIPANT 39: Because you don’t, you don't find it (trace it) or because of several reasons that there is no money, that we do not have access to information, that we are ashamed, that we, the people don’t  go.
INTERVIEWER: Do you know what the cause is?
PARTICIPANT 39: I don't know if I could define the cause. That they are often not, for example, not to mention that she had too many careless contacts, neglecting. So I can't say a cause, you have where to. For example, I had a wound on my cervix that I am still watching (following). I still haven't been told where I got this from. And I also had a cervical endometrial curettage in Cluj and even there I couldn't be told where from.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you heard of the word screening, about the program?
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 39: Well, to see the germs. For example, HPV is one of the many microbes involved in this infection.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 39: I don't know, in 2018. I think the last one and definitely before, no, I think that in 2016 when it was the caravan on Popa Șapcă, same at Tudor it didn’t come out well. I contacted the Institute. I went there, I did it, they took my sample. I came home, they called me, asked me I don't know how long I had the endometrial curettage to see in the endometrium, the cause or what happens why my wound can't be healed. I also had treatment.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about HPV? Did you do an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 39: Well, you know I didn't look at the paper to tell me this is HPV. I went to do a Papanicolau. Now there's also an HPV check or it is something.
INTERVIEWER: How does the sampling experience seem?
PARTICIPANT 39: The experience or the work itself?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, how does it seem? 
PARTICIPANT 39: What do you mean?
INTERVIEWER: At the test sampling how does it seem, good? 
PARTICIPANT 39: It seems good.
INTERVIEWER: Embarrassing? Painful?
PARTICIPANT 39: It depends now on how it is and how much if you are a little cold (infection) or maybe a little embarrassed but it is not so painful as to scare you. I say there would be something to fear.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 39: Hmm, men not at all. For example, I went to Cluj to see a doctor at Professor A. So I have no words, nor did I feel that you always have that embarrassed of oh mother, I am going again.  Eh, I didn't feel this thing. He spoke nicely, calm down, look we'll do it, it will feel that way. So great. I would go back. But look with these things we can’t really arrive there (*covid?!). And time and a lot. Now I came, I ran half an hour from work to get here because there are 60 km.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommend you the testing in 2018 when you did?
PARTICIPANT 39: Me. I'm operated of thyroid and I didn’t, wasn't too happy.
INTERVIEWER: And what was the result experience like? When you first find out the result?
PARTICIPANT 39: I was glad when they gave me good news. It wasn't that sad, because when they first tells you, God forbid.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, in 2016 when you received the result, how was it?
PARTICIPANT 39: Eh the girls spoke nicely to me and not not scared because if in the past it was once they didn't scare me, it didn't scare me. Because I saw that it can be solved, if you have days from God it is solved. But I think it’s under observation, so I can't sleep on my own oh my God. And they told me that in time they would have to remove my uterus completely. It still doesn't scare me. I would take it out even tomorrow, is not something for me like oh I am left without it. And from what I understand abroad after 40 or so years, it is recommended to have a serectomy.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 39: Regarding what?
INTERVIEWER: After testing.
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes, to go to the control, under observations, not to lie on one ear to let myself rest assured that it went well now. No, anything can happen anytime.
INTERVIEWER: And treatment? Have you got?
PARTICIPANT 39: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What other treatments have you done?
PARTICIPANT 39: Ovules in general. He also gave me cicatridine, he gave me cervicid and I tried several more.
INTERVIEWER: Who gave you this?
PARTICIPANT 39: Cicatridine from Cluj.
INTERVIEWER: Professor A.?
PARTICIPANT 39: Professor A. and was also the resident T. C. But he is no longer there.
INTERVIEWER: He is.
PARTICIPANT 39: In the institute.
INTERVIEWER: He's our project colleague now.
PARTICIPANT 39: Well I called him, I sent him the results and he told me the first time he answered my messages that I don't work there anymore.
INTERVIEWER: He doesn't work in the institute anymore, he's working with us on the project now.
PARTICIPANT 39: Very well and I'm glad, he’s really a gentleman.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. Can you tell us what the positive side of the test was? What was the good thing?
PARTICIPANT 39: Well, I found out, how to say, well, someone who gave a little interest that not everyone tells you, you know It would be good to continue with this. For example, to tell you about the thyroid gland. If they would have told me since they checked me and saw that I had nodules, they could have told me nicely hei kid because I was 30, go and continue the investigations with this because it doesn’t look good. Or anyway. It seems normal to me to protect, to know how to speak as some kind of psychologist so you can’t tell hei you know you had the gland full of nodules and two of which were of cancer. Well, you can’t tell it like that because no everyone is strong so that’s what I am saying. I was told nicely what has to be done so and so, very well says the person because they can’t take you by force. For it was, I was very pleased. 
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 39: There is no negative side. Not. From my point of view not, what’s negative or what makes me unhappy that these programs are very rare, very rare. To be more often and not only on the cervix, on the breasts too. Now I've talked to the girls. There are many girls who do not have the opportunity to go, they make children, they curettage in vain when there are so many contraceptives because they are unprepared. I do not know. We, communication have nothing. I am in a village where there are 3700 and some inhabitants. There are a lot of women who do not menstruate, they do not get pregnant. Well, wait, I woke up late and I can't do a curettage or anyway for a lot of things that need to be prepared. From my point of view, that's exactly what I was talking about. So I'm talking from my point of view, young girls, I don't know about contraception, they don’t know, yet there is the internet, they are looking for other nonsense (on the internet). 
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you think you might encounter when you want to take a test? Lack of time, money, distance, domicile? Which do you think might be there?
PARTICIPANT 39: There we no longer raise the issue of this pandemic. From my point of view, if you have money, you don't have time, if you have time, you don't have money. Yes, thank God I'm different, I'm a happier case. There are women who were not, whose investigation was taking children and said that she did not go with the children to the doctor because she does not have a car to take them to the individual doctor's office, to the family doctor and hard, in the countryside, the city is better, in the countryside is very hard.
INTERVIEWER: As a final thought, the whole experience as it seemed to you? The overall experience like in general?
PARTICIPANT 39: The experience?
INTERVIEWER: The test experience, the result?
PARTICIPANT 39: I told you we can take it somewhere else, but if I heard about the caravan, I wanted to come. It's something for me, so I can honestly tell you I was in Bucharest, I was operated in Bucharest for thyroid gland. However, I would go to Cluj, I said that it does not want to take my file from Bucharest because I am taking it myself to stay there with everything. Honestly, it doesn't even compare the staff, everything, everything, even the taxi drivers who take you to the station because you don't know them. Beautiful if more parts would be like that (*I think she talks about a very positive experience she had in Cluj as opposed to Bucharest and would be happy to see other places being like Cluj). 
INTERVIEWER: Thank you for answering our questions!
PARTICIPANT 39: Thank you too!
Interview 40_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We'll record the interview and then analyse the answers. I will give you a form, an information sheet that will remain with you. This way you know that all the data is confidential.
PARTICIPANT 40: I don't think I have the glasses do I need to read it now?
INTERVIEWER: It's not a problem, she'll read it at home, it will remain. I will just ask you to write your name, date and signature here. It is important to know that the data is confidential, that you can always contact us and ask us any questions about what we do here.
PARTICIPANT 40: I think we are in 25th.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, 25th today. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is our partner from Norway. And I'm going to ask a few questions, can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 40: 45 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead!
PARTICIPANT 40: Thank you as well!
INTERVIEWER: The domicile?
PARTICIPANT 40: In Târgu Jiu.
INTERVIEWER: Târgu Jiu. What is your job?
PARTICIPANT 40: At the moment I am a monitor for some social enterprises, in the economic field around these areas.
INTERVIEWER: And studies?
PARTICIPANT 40: Economics, economic sciences. 
INTERVIEWER: Okay, what, do you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 40: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: So is the family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 40: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 40: Yes, I have two children.
INTERVIEWER: And children?
PARTICIPANT 40: Two.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, I know that it develops if you are found, it can develop, I don't know if it is necessarily a condition due to HPV. That's what I know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening?
PARTICIPANT 40: Screening being Papanicolau? The test? Yes?
INTERVIEWER: And what do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, that it can tell if there are any changes on cervix. And if they are, I know the test is being repeated. Afterwards I don't know because I do it every year but it never came back (...)
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did a Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 40: In January 2021.
INTERVIEWER: And before January?
PARTICIPANT 40: In December I think 2020.
INTERVIEWER: Do you do it regularly?
PARTICIPANT 40: Once a year.
INTERVIEWER: Once a year.
PARTICIPANT 40: And when I do the Babeș Papanicolau test if I haven't done a gynaecological check-up before, I do it then, I also do the ultrasound check and Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 40: That HPV is a virus. I took the test (...)
INTERVIEWER: When did you do it? last year?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, when were you here when it was done, I don't even know how many, last year or now at the beginning?
INTERVIEWER: Perhaps.
PARTICIPANT 40: Yes, so I think this year at the beginning and it came out positive.
INTERVIEWER: And before that, when did you do it? Did you ever do the HPV?
PARTICIPANT 40: No.
INTERVIEWER: Have you heard of HPV before?
PARTICIPANT 40: I heard yes, but I honestly didn't know that an HPV test was done. I thought the Papanicolau test is (*the same).
INTERVIEWER: How was the sampling experience? if you can tell us? How is the sampling experience like?
PARTICIPANT 40: I have no problem, since I go to the checks periodically, it didn't seem to me (...)
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer a female or a male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, I have no preferences. I also went to a male gynaecologist; I gave birth with men. Male doctors. But it’s true, lately I've only been to women's doctors. But I have no problem with that.
INTERVIEWER: Who recommend you the HPV testing?
PARTICIPANT 40: Then when or when I heard about the program, the family doctor recommended it to me.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 40: I can't get interested, I knew about HPV so in general I don't know if I knew a lot but a few years ago I went with the little boy to the dermatologist with the little one who is 14 years old now, I think he was 8 years old, 9 years old so. Something had come out of his upper lip and I went to the dermatologist to see what it was. Then the dermatologist told us that it was a wart, that it was called a wart, and that it was caused by HPV. I know that we have the impression that HPV is only related to cervical cancer, and I did not know that there are more roots. 
INTERVIEWER: Strains.
PARTICIPANT 40: Strains, and probably he saw me somehow scared when he told me, when I heard HPV and then he told me that there are more strains so not to be scared, that it has nothing to do with it, I mean I told him what I knew has only to do with. And then he found out that there are several strains and now I recently found out that when I had my HPV I found out that a vax is actually being made, I also know about the vaccine and that the vaccine is also being given to boys, I didn't know. And also during this period when (…)
INTERVIEWER: How was it when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, even before I received the result, I was told that it was not that bad. And I started reading and I realized that during my lifetime a lot of people may have been infected with HPV at least once. I don't know if I'm wrong or not.
INTERVIEWER: What did you do after you found out that the result was positive?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, I think that after that period I did the Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Have you had any treatment?
PARTICIPANT 40: No.
INTERVIEWER: Have you received any recommendations?
PARTICIPANT 40: No.
INTERVIEWER: Any other information then?
PARTICIPANT 40: Besides the fact that he told me not to be worried, to do Papanicolau. Well, I did it a year ago, a year apart, and then he told me it would be good to do it at six months.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing? that you had an HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 40: Well, the fact that you know you're a carrier of the HPV virus. Now I don't know how much I can protect others, because I understand that it is taken from the towel and now I don't know if it's true or not. So. And the fact that I'm probably going to take the Papanicolau test every six months from now.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the downside? what is the negative side of testing?
PARTICIPANT 40: The fact that I know that I have, or why should I be a negative? the fact that I found out?
INTERVIEWER: Yes, did you take the test or maybe it's a negative side to it or maybe?
PARTICIPANT 40: No, on the contrary, the fact that you know is very good.
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you think you may encounter to do the 6-month Babeș Papanicolau test or testing? I don't know, it could be lack of time, lack of money, home, transportation.
PARTICIPANT 40: I don't know, for myself no. Is not. I mean, like I did once a year, I'll do it every six months. It will not be a problem.
INTERVIEWER: And so overall what did you think of the whole experience with the test with the result so overall? What do you think of the whole experience?
PARTICIPANT 40: I think it’s very well. And now that I've talked about it, I'm probably going to be more interested in that. It is a positive experience.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you for answering our questions!
PARTICIPANT 40: With pleasure!
INTERVIEWER: And I hope they weren't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 40: No, not at all.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!



Interview 41_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We record the discussion so that we can then analyse the answers. There are no right or wrong answers. It's what you know, what you think about certain things. Here I will give you an information sheet that will remain with you. Please note that all data is confidential and here I will ask for my name, date and signature. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncology Institute in Cluj, and the lady is Linda, our partner from Norway. And I'm going to ask you a few questions. Can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 41: 34.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 41: From Craiova, here.
INTERVIEWER: Here in Craiova. Can you tell me what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 41: Public administration, legal advisor.
INTERVIEWER: So what school do you have?
PARTICIPANT 41: I did law and electrical engineering.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, so you have the normal health insurance.
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: And a family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 41: And family doctor.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Children?
PARTICIPANT 41: I have a little girl, yes, she turned 11 yesterday.
INTERVIEWER: Long live!
PARTICIPANT 41: Thank you!
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 41: Nothing good in any case. I mean, it's something I wouldn't know how to tell you in detail, to detail this cancer, but in principle I know that it's not good, has to be prevented, to be taken in time, to be found in time. With that I tell you that through your program I also detected and discovered. By chance.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you heard of the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 41: I heard yes. In principle, it is probably an analysis (test) of what is happening there. I don’t know.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 41: I know it has to be done at least once a year and I think it's the first to say so indicates other problems. Or that from here we should ask ourselves questions.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you took a Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 41: In the spring of this year. I had those question marks after you then and after that I went to the gynaecologist I did the Papanicolau and HPV and he also gave me some natural based treatment (...)
INTERVIEWER: And before this year, when did you last do it?
PARTICIPANT 41: I haven't been for 9 years as much as it was needed after I gave birth. I was then a year after I gave birth like that and after that I was not, out of neglect I tell you honestly. Let it be that next month, then the next, that it will be, that it will not be.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about the HPV test?
PARTICIPANT 41: I don't know much. I know they're some strains. Which are more dubious so to speak. I don't know much, those can be cancerous genes, I don't know what to say. Basically, not much, I know, that's where the cancer in that strain comes from.
INTERVIEWER: When did you take the test? the year?
PARTICIPANT 41: We are in 2021, yes. Well.
INTERVIEWER: Was it in 2020?
PARTICIPANT 41: I think so. Then after.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. And before that, have you ever had HPV or was it your first time?
PARTICIPANT 41: No, it was the first time on HPV, I was just doing Papanicolau. It's a little better for me, I gave birth in Italy where the doctors were different. Indeed, at the time of my birth, they said that they were cysts or what they had seen, but that we should not worry that they should be followed and that it would not be a big deal. After that I did the same routine check, which means something extra, it was ok in general.
INTERVIEWER: How did it seem the sampling experience? 
PARTICIPANT 41: A sampling, I mean, nah, I could not describe it in any way.
INTERVIEWER: Do you find it embarrassing?
PARTICIPANT 41: A little.
INTERVIEWER: Is it uncomfortable, painful, is it?
PARTICIPANT 41: It's not painful, it's a bit of a discomfort when they take it from there, I don’t know how to express it. I don’t know more. 
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer female or male gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 41: Woman. Maybe it's not correct, yes.
INTERVIEWER: Well, that's why I'm telling you that there's nothing right or wrong, whatever everyone prefers.
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes, that's right.
INTERVIEWER: What other information did you receive when you took the test?
PARTICIPANT 41: What else did I receive? Information. I wouldn't know how much to say now. When I did it or when did I receive the results?
INTERVIEWER: When you did it? when did it, after I’ll ask you about the result.
PARTICIPANT 41: So why I do it, how I came to think of HPV, that I have discomfort, it hurts, I have bleeding or something like that.
INTERVIEWER: And who recommended you the testing? How did you find out?
PARTICIPANT 41: Through your program.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, but how did you find out?
PARTICIPANT 41: I received the result or not.
INTERVIEWER: So through our program, but did anyone let you know? A friend or?
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes, a friend, yes, she was not, someone else who was running those tests. A co-worker rather, they came to work and gave it to several girls.
INTERVIEWER: What did you do self-sampling?
PARTICIPANT 41: Exactly. Now that's why I went immediately, saying that maybe I didn't take it right. In principle.
INTERVIEWER: And then? after the result was positive and after that you do a new result, test?
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes. I did this to the gynaecologist, I was telling you, and some strains came out the same way, I wouldn't know, I don't know, they said they wouldn't be the most dangerous but there are some of them or I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: And what was it like when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 41: How could it be, that's how it was. Sad, from a point of view you're just not happy. I was thinking about what I was going to do, I was also asking the doctor what I was going to do. Don't be afraid that (...)
INTERVIEWER: Were you scared? Were you stressed? Were you panicking?
PARTICIPANT 41: In the moment yes, the state of. At the moment yes. Of course, you panic a little, but after that nah, you think in a way that maybe it won't be as bad as it.
INTERVIEWER: And then you did Pap?
PARTICIPANT 41: Yes, he took for both. I think I have them too.
INTERVIEWER: Yes, you show them to the doctor. And what treatment did you take after?
PARTICIPANT 41: I took it on a natural basis. Oriolius I don't know anymore. Biobran, stuff like that was given to me by the doctor for up to six months. I don't know exactly. He also gave me some antibiotics then for five days, but I don't even know, the trav (* name not completed), something like that.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing, that you took a test?
PARTICIPANT 41: The positive part is that if it were something I would find out in advance that I would not stay until nothing was done and nothing could be done. And it's okay to do it as early as possible. But at the same time, I told you, we know what's right but we don't do it, so it's ok, but it's not ok.
INTERVIEWER: And the negative side of testing, what do you think it is?
PARTICIPANT 41: Negative, I don't know if there is a negative side. The downside may be that God forbid something happens at the time of testing or I don't know, any injury (wound) or something. I don't know, a minus. That's how I see it, I don't think there's anything wrong with doing tests?
INTERVIEWER: Are you still worried about the results? test? of?
PARTICIPANT 41: No. I have no worries because. What could it be. I don't think so. Not. That's all I told you, there are no other problems at sampling time, God forbid. Otherwise, basically that's what I'm afraid of hospitals in Romania with other bacteria, you think after I have mine (my problems) to take from here. But otherwise I don't think it would be.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think might be the obstacles that keep you from taking a test? that is, lack of time, or did you say earlier neglect, or lack of money, or distance?
PARTICIPANT 41: All this, all this cumulated if you will. First of all this indifference (negligence), you say that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. After that I don't have time to go. And everything is done only when it burns you, I mean, when you really think you have nothing else to do. And then why not even the money because in Romania. Because everything in Romania is all very expensive. It takes you 10 million (1000 RON) in private, some trivial tests, a consultation, an ultrasound all cost money. And well with the money, you make a sacrifice but also the time, neglect and all, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: Yes. So in the end, so what was the whole experience like?
PARTICIPANT 41: It's ok, it's auspicious, at least for me it was because I detected some things which I don’t think I would have, even if I told you I had many years that I said, I am going, I am going, but I didn’t. And it came a thing and that’s why I said that it means that I nee to go further and see what it’s happening. It’s ok. 
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much! I hope the questions weren't too uncomfortable. Thanks so much for everything!



Interview 42_EN

INTERVIEWER: We will record the interview so that we can analyse the answers you gave us. There are no wrong or correct answers, it's just your opinion and what you know. And I'll give you an information sheet first that will stay with you and you can take it home to read it. But in principle the most important thing to know is that all data is confidential. And then here I will ask your name, first name. My name is A. D., I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj. Mrs. Linda is our partner in Norway. And I'm going to ask you a few things about you first. How old are you?
PARTICIPANT 42: 41.
INTERVIEWER: Many ahead! Domicile?
PARTICIPANT 42: Craiova.
INTERVIEWER: Craiova. What is your occupation if you can tell us?
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes, I work in a penitentiary.
INTERVIEWER: So you have health insurance?
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes we have.
INTERVIEWER: Family doctor?
PARTICIPANT 42: I always have a family doctor. I go to the gynaecologist once a year for Papanicolau. I lost three pregnancies and then they monitor me. Last year, after I went with the tests and showed them, I was told that we would go down at 6 months to do Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Are you married?
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children too?
PARTICIPANT 42: I have adopted.
INTERVIEWER: You've adopted.
PARTICIPANT 42: I was unable to keep the pregnancy. I have adopted a girl and I am in the process of adopting a second child.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I know that HPV virus, untreated and detected in time, can lead to not getting cervical cancer if you treat it, if you monitor it if and if you do get cervical cancer I know there's a high risk of dying, that it's pretty fast how everything happens.
INTERVIEWER: What. Which do you think is the cause?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I understand that it is transmitted through unprotected sex. The one who has the virus transmits it to the other one as they are easily transmitted. I think there are other ways of transmission but I don't know them.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about screening? Have you heard of the word screening?
PARTICIPANT 42: I guess it's a medical procedure to test something.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about.
PARTICIPANT 42: I suspect this was done to me last year.
INTERVIEWER: What do you know about Babeș Papanicolau?
PARTICIPANT 42: That it is a test through which you detect, that you have to do annually or I mean as recommended by your gynaecologist to see if it is positive or not for HPV.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did it?
PARTICIPANT 42: After the result came back, I have it with me. After the result came from (…)
INTERVIEWER: And before that, when did you do it?
PARTICIPANT 42: Annually, in September.
INTERVIEWER: So every year you do the Babeș Papanicolau test.
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes, yes, yes.
INTERVIEWER: All right. And what do you know about HPV? What do you think HPV is? What is HPV infection?
PARTICIPANT 42: It is a virus and if you do not detect it in time it is invasive and leads to death and if we detect it you can take measures so you don’t end up dying. I guess that's why it's done to monitor, to see if (...)
INTERVIEWER: And when did you take the HPV test? Last year?
PARTICIPANT 42: 28 of 10th, a year ago.
INTERVIEWER: And before this test, did you ever have an HPV (test)?
PARTICIPANT 42: No, I didn't know it was done.
INTERVIEWER: Was it your first time?
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes, I knew that Papanicolau is done, I didn't know how to test it or in general when I asked gynaecologists they told me and before I changed several gynaecologists, they told me that if Papanicolau comes back well you have no problems. When I lost the pregnancies, I wondered why I was losing the pregnancy. And then I found out that there is a virus that causes cervical cancer. And I asked if I could, I tested myself on several things then and I asked if I should get tested and he said no, that if Panapicolau comes back well you can't have it. I thought that if I had a good Papanicolau I wouldn't have HPV. That's how I understood.
INTERVIEWER: How does the sampling experience seem? 
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I did the sampling myself last year.
INTERVIEWER: So you did the self-sampling.
PARTICIPANT 42: It wasn't a big deal. I followed the instructions as they were written there. I was surprised that I did the sampling well because usually at the gynaecologist is harder with the sampling, nah it's not really like that, I don't relax I have other problems yes but it's still a sampling, it's not a big deal, I mean, besides what you can avoid (...)
INTERVIEWER: And when you go to the gynaecologist, do you prefer a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 42: I had men at first because they were good specialists but I prefer women and I prefer the lady doctor with whom I have a relationship for ten years because I trust her, something like that.
INTERVIEWER: I understand.
PARTICIPANT 42: I don't change because.
INTERVIEWER: And what information did you receive when? Who recommended you the testing?
PARTICIPANT 42: The testing?
INTERVIEWER: HPV. Who told you about?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I work with my doctor at work. Yes, is the wife of the gentleman who takes care of and she knew about three lost three pregnancies that I monitor myself, that I do Papanicolau every year and so somehow I was interested in, not to have a problem not to have something and she said to me look, if you want you can participate but you have to sampling yourself. And I said good, ok. And so it was during the period when I had to do Papanicolau because in September I said yes, why not.
INTERVIEWER: Can you tell me what it was like when you received the result?
PARTICIPANT 42: Terrible. Yes, it was like this, I mean it was very, I got scared very much in that way that I am not in the procedure of adoption, I was there too and I wanted to stop the procedure. I thought I wouldn't be able to finish the procedure and I'd probably die. Yes it was. I was very shocked until I got to the gynaecologist to actually tell me that there are other women who come out positive that if you are positive it does not mean that you are going to die tomorrow I mean the kind of uninformed woman who does not know what it is about and nah, it was very foolish (weird as in bad; nonsense), I don't think I slept that week until I got Papanicolau and all that.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, what other tests did you do after finding out the result?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I did that because that's what it says here and she said I did it to you, it came out perfect, don't worry anymore (don’t be agitated). That I wanted to have a colposcopy and she said no, it's not done with a colposcopy if the Papanicolau came out well, and she told me that we do it every year and it comes out well. Something like relax, you're going to go crazy. But I really did go crazy.
INTERVIEWER: Did she give you any treatment after or?
PARTICIPANT 42: Not now because I didn't have anything. In the past, she gave me for another Papanicolau. I took it, I don't know, something like candida came out or stuff like that, secretions (discharge) like that. I've had all sorts of treatments over time but nothing, I don’t have. When I was pregnant for a while I took hormones and that's what I got, something like that (*she is trying to say that she always follows the doctor’s instructions regarding treatments). 
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you think is a positive part of the test, that you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I practically found out that I carry a virus and that I can prevent it from evolving in a negative way. Anyway, I used to do Papanicolau every year, but now I'm going to do it twice a year, something like taking more measures, and then I tried to get all my friends to do it because none of them did Papanicolau. Even my mother, she doesn't think it's the case and it's a fad (caprice). I don't think it's a fad but a necessity, it's normal to do it and know what we need to do to be good, I mean, not to reach the last phase when probably it’s very difficult to go back or take them gradually. I just didn't know exactly gradually means, no. 
INTERVIEWER: And what do you think is the negative side? Do you consider that there is a negative side?
PARTICIPANT 42: Well, I think that the fact that I took it differently, I dramatized more than I have should, but also out of ignorance. Until I got to talk to my doctor to calm me down somehow. I think that the fact that I didn’t inform myself, that.
INTERVIEWER: What obstacles do you think there are to prevent you from taking a test? or go to the gynaecologist for example.
PARTICIPANT 42: In my case there are no obstacles, maybe only indolence.
INTERVIEWER: Lack of time?
PARTICIPANT 42: No.
INTERVIEWER: Lack of money?
PARTICIPANT 42: No. But I have knowledge that invokes so I said, including lack of money.
INTERVIEWER: They're expensive.
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes. That they are not accessible to everyone. I have a problem and then I put some financial resources aside because I know I have to do this. But a man (person) who doesn't know he has a problem isn't going to give 5 million (500 RON) for a test when he thinks he's healthy, right? Or there are other people in the countryside, for example, I have some cousins in the countryside who never went to the gynaecologist and say if I have two healthy children born by me, what do you know that you never gave birth after so many you have problems because you didn’t give birth or. That is, the lack of knowledge in this field somehow everyone appreciates things at the level of knowledge he has. The fear of a doctor, no, women in Romania as a culture do not undress so easily in front of someone. That's how we were taught, yes. In general the lack of money, with time it’s not so bad but the money, the shame.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have any concerns now about the result?
PARTICIPANT 42: Yes. Yes. I'm generally stressed when I go to the gynaecologist I'm stressed all the time because I didn’t have pleasant experiences. All my pregnancies stopped, I had interventions, meaning it's not just when they told me I was pregnant but somehow even then I wasn't happy because I was scared. I have thrombophilia, I was told from the beginning that I also had injections and everything I needed to do but my placenta coagulated, I mean no, I don't associate it with something pleasant, but something necessary.
INTERVIEWER: If you were to describe the experience as a whole, in general, as a final thought, all this experience with the positive test, with the testing with that.
PARTICIPANT 42: I think it's a great thing that there is a project like this not necessarily for me who has access somehow but for those who don't have access for people who don't. I think it's a very good thing and you have to help others, a normal thing, should be normal to do that. And there should be more accessible, access to all kinds of investigations and somehow should also come from our education, that. Not to be so reluctant. That it was very difficult to convince six people to come and do a free test in the end. I mean, you have nothing to lose. Let me say somehow I'm afraid because I have a negative result in the back, a positive one I mean, but the others why they don’t want, because they were not even scheduled to do it, I mean.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!
PARTICIPANT 42: I thank you!
INTERVIEWER: I hope I was too uncomfortable. Thank you again and I will ask you to stay.



Interview 43_ EN

INTERVIEWER: We record the discussion we have to analyse the answers but more importantly know that all data is confidential. This is an information sheet that will remain with you and here I will ask you to write your name, date and signature. My name is A. D. I work at the Oncological Institute in Cluj and the lady is Linda our partner from Norway. I'll ask you some questions about yourself first. Can you tell me how old you are?
PARTICIPANT 43: 38 years old.
INTERVIEWER: Where do you live?
PARTICIPANT 43: In Craiova.
INTERVIEWER: In Craiova, I wanted to say Târgu Jiu, yesterday I was there. So if you can tell what is your occupation?
PARTICIPANT 43: Nurse at the Victor Babeș Infectious Diseases Hospital.
INTERVIEWER: I understand. So it means you have health insurance, you have a family doctor, you have everything. Yes?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: That's right. You are married?
PARTICIPANT 43: Divorced for three years.
INTERVIEWER: Do you have children too?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes, I have a boy he will be 8 years old in November.
INTERVIEWER: Long live! What do you know about cervical cancer?
PARTICIPANT 43: The first time I took the test and it came out positive, I thought that this is not a virus that can be treated directly, like a cervical cancer. Yes. After the positive test came out form you, I don't know, it was also something with those from Cluj, I worked and I tested positive for the first time through a colleague from Hospital number 1 who worked at a gynaecology office and she had some free tests and shared, after I found out that it came out positive. I also went to a gynaecology practice here in town, I repeated the same thing and it came out positive and I have all the papers with me and he gave me a treatment to follow. I wanted to do it, I had read on the internet that a test can be done that tells you for sure if you have it or not and the gynaecologist said no, first let's follow this treatment and then let's do that test afterwards. To my shame, I haven't finished the treatment yet, which had to be finished in February. It's a, I took the pills but the gel I didn’t, due to my work, I mean, the gel is applied in the evening. I, in the evening, I haunt until the morning, I mean the night shift, I can't afford to put on that gel and that's why I didn't finish.
INTERVIEWER: Okay. What do you know about the Babeș Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 43: If it comes out positive, then I contacted the virus from somewhere. Something I don't even know where I got it from even now. As for sex, I was only with my husband, with whom I divorced and a partner, I don't know.
INTERVIEWER: When was the last time you did pap? When did you say you had the Papanicolau test?
PARTICIPANT 43: Well with you in 2020. It’s written also in 2020, 10th month.
INTERVIEWER: This is HPV. And before this HPV, have you had HPV before?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes in 2019.
INTERVIEWER: Okay so you knew about the HPV test before you?
PARTICIPANT 43: Da da da.
INTERVIEWER: Before we do the campaign.
PARTICIPANT 43: Because I also had a cyst surgery a few years ago. Well, the diagnosis was of the tumour, it was sampled from there so it remained at the cyst stage and they said that if when it opens it is decided if it keeps the ovary, if it can cut next to it and still keeps the ovary, that a year later I also made the child. And (...)
INTERVIEWER: Who recommended testing?
PARTICIPANT 43: Now to yours when I came out positive?
INTERVIEWER: Yes.
PARTICIPANT 43: A friend and colleague from Hospital number 1 who worked at a gynaecology practice.
INTERVIEWER: And what other information did they give you?
PARTICIPANT 43: Not to be scared even if I came out positive and keep in touch with (...)
INTERVIEWER: Yes, how was it when you found out the result?
PARTICIPANT 43: It was a shock. He was shocked that you thought, I was thinking directly about cervical cancer.
INTERVIEWER: Were you scared?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: What other information did you receive?
PARTICIPANT 43: That's it. No. I would get vaccinated if possible, and children, girls, I would recommend getting vaccinated with HPV.
INTERVIEWER: How do you like the harvest? Did you do your self-sampling?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes. I did.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer self-sampling or do you prefer to go to the gynaecologist?
PARTICIPANT 43: At the gynaecologist.
INTERVIEWER: Do you prefer the gynaecologist to be a woman or a man?
PARTICIPANT 43: It doesn't matter, someone I can work with. A gynaecologist who was also a man in Craiova, was recommended by my colleagues, Dr. I.D, very well, I mean, being a man, not, the way he sits and speaks and explains was not the case, there was no, a doctor gynaecologist who was so fast before he doesn't stop to tell more information, so I don't know, very fast as a conveyor belt (*expression; mechanic, factory like), I don’t know, something that it doesn’t seem.. When a person is scared, you have to have a little more patience to explain things, to encourage him, not to. Because I am also working in the system and I know that I see the parents that come with sick children, I mean, if I would be faster too, after the mother is finished (overwhelmed), because the child is the way it is, if I talk to her in a certain way, you will realize. So it doesn't matter, someone you communicate with, not that is a man or a woman.
INTERVIEWER: If you can't tell us more about the experience of the result, what did you do after that? And treatment, what treatment did he give you?
PARTICIPANT 43: Isoprinosing the pills and this gel that I don’t remember now how is called.
INTERVIEWER: And something else? Did he give you any other recommendations? Colposcopy? Other Tests?
PARTICIPANT 43: No no no. He said that after I finished the treatment, we should go and get another sample, and then we see that he was telling me about this analysis, which I had read, I also miss that, with something of a scope, a more confused name.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the positive side of testing? The fact that you did the test?
PARTICIPANT 43: You can treat, I mean, you don’t reach the bad side of cervical cancer, I mean, you can still prevent through treatment, you went and found that you are positive.
INTERVIEWER: What do you think is the negative side?
PARTICIPANT 43: Not to correspond to the treatment.
INTERVIEWER: You mean?
PARTICIPANT 43: To reach to, to be even cancer probably, I don't know what to tell you.
INTERVIEWER: And what did the experience itself look like?
PARTICIPANT 43: For the moment I found out that I was positive, it was quite, dramatic, until I got used to the idea that it is a treatment possibility and that.
INTERVIEWER: Were you scared?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes.
INTERVIEWER: Are you still worried about the test result?
PARTICIPANT 43: Yes, I wanted to do it, but when I was told that you were arriving in Craiova on the date of the menstrual cycle, it was on the first, probably because of this stress, it came earlier and that I would have done a sample with you, I even wanted to know.
INTERVIEWER: So, overall the whole experience, with what final thought, I don't know how, a good thing that, how do you perceive the experience?
PARTICIPANT 43: I think that the treatment could have an effect and not, that I will get a negative at the next Papanicolau.
INTERVIEWER: Do you think there are any barriers to further testing in the future? I don't know, lack of time.
PARTICIPANT 43: Lack of time is (...)
INTERVIEWER: Money
PARTICIPANT 43: Money (...)
INTERVIEWER: Insufficient information
PARTICIPANT 43: The money (...) (* the participant is keep trying to say something and is not being let to talk - it is very important to notice here how the participant is answering, the tonality etc)
INTERVIEWER: Moving from side to side.
PARTICIPANT 43: No, the time because the work is very demanding. I am also at a college in Lugoj, I mean, there is, when I'm not at work, I'm in college, on a road to Lugoj, and so do I have the little boy I told you about, so I'm always in against time (contretemps), on the run, always on the run. The situation at work is very stressful. Holidays, we were not allowed to take during this period and the lack of time is, no other reason.
INTERVIEWER: Okay, thank you very much. That was. I hope it wasn't too uncomfortable.
PARTICIPANT 43: No, not at all.
INTERVIEWER: Thank you very much!


	

 








